---
title: "The Best Deals Today: The First Berserker: Khazan, Silent Hill f, AMD Ryzen 9 9900X, and More"
source: "Noah Hunter"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/best-deals-for-february-8-2026"
published: "2026-02-08T20:34:20.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: ""
---
We&#39;ve rounded up the best deals for Sunday, February 8, below. Don&#39;t miss your chance to save on these deals! The First Berserker: Khazan for $39.99 This weekend, The First Berserker: Khazan is back down to $39.99, which is the game&#39;s all-time low price. In our 8/10 review , we wrote, &quot;The First Beserker: Khazan is a brutal but impressive soulslike that makes pushing through its devastating bosses worth the effort.&quot; AMD Ryzen 9 9900X for $377.19 Amazon has the fantastic AMD Ryzen 9900X on sale today for $377.19, which saves you over $120 off MSRP. In our 8/10 review , we wrote, &quot;The AMD Ryzen 9 9900X is an incredible processor, easily able to power through creative applications like Adobe Premiere and Photoshop. However, its gaming performance is a bit less impressive for the price, making it hard to recommend to dedicated PC gamers.&quot; Silent Hill f for $39.99 You can also score Silent Hill f for $39.99 this weekend. This game is one of the most unique in the series, mainly due to its story, which was written by Ryukushi07. Composer Akira Yamaoka contributed to the project as well, and this edition on Amazon packs in a two-sided poster, plus the Day One items pack. Bleach: Thousand-Year Blood War Part 3 Limited Edition Blu-ray for $49.99 The conclusion of Bleach: Thousand-Year Blood War is almost here, with the final cour, The Calamity, set to premiere this July. Today, you can score the limited edition Blu-ray of Part 3, The Conflict, for just $49.99. This set only released last month and features all 14 episodes of Part 3, plus a 72-page production booklet, the NYCC 2024 panel, creditless opening/endings, and more. Octopath Traveler 0 for $39.99 Octopath Traveler 0 was easily one of the most overlooked RPGs of 2025. This massive game packs in a huge amount of content, with over 100 hours required to 100% the game. In our 9/10 review , we wrote, &quot;Octopath Traveler 0 asks you to stick with a 100-hour journey, and it rewards you with the kinds of moments only lengthy RPGs can pull off with its overarching story, an intricate turn-based combat system, and a soundtrack that&#39;ll leave you absolutely floored.&quot; Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater for $29.99 Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater is one of the best games of all time. Konami&#39;s remake, dubbed Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater, was released last year, and it successfully did its job in faithfully bringing the beloved game to new audiences. In our 8/10 review , we wrote, &quot;Between its old-school stealth-action gameplay and engaging spy-thriller story, Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater largely succeeds as a faithful, visually impressive remake of the 2004 classic.&quot; Save 38% Off the Chainsaw Man Season 1 Limited Edition Blu-ray Chainsaw Man&#39;s first season only officially released on Blu-ray as of late last year, so while this release is pretty recent, you can save $30 off today at Amazon. The Limited Edition packs in all twelve episodes of Season 1, featuring both Japanese and English audio. Plus, you&#39;ll also get a lenticular slipcase, a 72-page booklet of production material, and on-disc art galleries. Dragon Quest I &amp; II HD-2D Remake for $49.99 Dragon Quest I &amp; II HD-2D Remake is an overhaul of the first two Dragon Quest games, recreating them in the gorgeous HD-2D art style while adding modern features and still remaining true to the originals. Today, you can score this game for $49.99 on PS5 at Amazon. If you&#39;re someone just jumping into Dragon Quest for the first time or a long-time fan, this is the ultimate way to experience two games that greatly inspired the whole genre. Super Mario Galaxy + Super Mario Galaxy 2 for $58.99 Super Mario Galaxy + Super Mario Galaxy 2 released for Nintendo Switch last Fall, and today, you can score this double pack for $58.99 at Woot! These two adventures are some of Mario&#39;s greatest, making this a must-own game for any Switch owner. Plus, there&#39;s a free update for Nintendo Switch 2 that enables 4K support. Final Fantasy Tactics - The Ivalice Chronicles for $34.99 Final Fantasy Tactics - The Ivalice Chronicles is just $34.99 at Woot today. As one of the best Final Fantasy games ever, this remaster is the perfect way to experience the beloved classic with enhanced modern features like fast-forward, autosave, and more. Dragon Quest VII Reimagined Out Now Dragon Quest VII Reimagined is finally out now! This remake aims to streamline the experience of the original game, while offering a brand-new art style and modern gameplay features for players. If you&#39;ve recently cleared through the HD-2D Erdrick Trilogy, this is a logical next game to jump to. New Nintendo Switch 2 Joy-Con 2 Out This Week Nintendo revealed the first new set of Joy-Con 2 earlier this year, which feature purple and green colors. These are set to launch this week, on February 12, alongside Mario Tennis Fever, so now&#39;s the time to secure a new pair if you&#39;re planning on heading to the courts together with friends.
