---
title: "God of War Show Finds Its Atreus in Callum Vinson"
source: "Michael Cripe"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/god-of-war-show-finds-its-atreus-in-callum-vinson"
published: "2026-02-09T17:36:50.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Amazon and Sony have confirmed that Callum Vinson will play Kratos’ son, Atreus, in the upcoming live-action God of War show."
---
Updated: Feb 9, 2026 5:36pm UTCAmazon and Sony have confirmed that Callum Vinson will play Kratos’ son, Atreus, in the upcoming live-action God of War show.It’s yet another casting update for the hotly anticipated series adaptation of a classic PlayStation game, this time locking in what is no doubt one of its most important roles. Vinson will join Ryan Hurst’s Kratos when the two tear their way through Norse mythology on Prime Video at an unspecified date.Callum Vinson. Photo by Meg Vinson.Vinson has quite the resume, with shows like Chucky, Long Bright River, and Poker Face already under his belt. Beyond the projects he’s previously appeared in, audiences will also be able to catch him as a young Jason Voorhees in the upcoming Friday the 13th spinoff, Crystal Lake. His role as Atreus will see him partnered up with one of the most imposing characters in video game history, but he’ll still be able to hold his own against the creatures – and gods – he’ll almost certainly come up against.“Atreus, the 10-year-old son of Kratos, grew up in a remote forest cabin, isolated from the rest of the world and raised almost entirely by his mother, Faye,” an official description for the character says. “He is an accomplished archer, has an affinity for animals, and is intensely curious about what lies beyond the confines of his forest home. After his mother’s death, Atreus is left with a cold, distant father who he barely knows and who knows little about him in return. Nonetheless, Atreus yearns for his father’s approval and is desperate to prove he is strong enough to survive in a harsh and dangerous world.”Casting confirmation for Atreus marks an important moment for the God of War show, but Vinson is far from the first name to join the team. Hurst, who played Thor in 2022 video game sequel God of War Ragnarok, was first, with Amazon and Sony confirming he had joined as the Blades of Chaos-wielding Ghost of Sparta a little less than one month ago.It was a bombshell for the game-turned-show that opened the floodgates with more announcements, as Teresa Palmer, Max Parker, Ólafur Darri Ólafsson, and Mandy Patinkin joined as Sif, Heimdall, Thor, and Odin, respectively, in the weeks that followed. The most recent additions saw Amazon bringing back Alastair Duncan as Mimir, while also adding newcomers Danny Woodburn as Brok and Jeff Gulka as Sindri.Those who have played the Norse installments in the God of War franchise – which encompasses God of War (2018) and Ragnarok – will note that most major cast members are now locked in. Still, as the project’s cast seems to lean more on Ragnarok than its predecessor, there are plenty of other characters left in limbo. Freya and Baldur are two names crucial to developer Santa Monica Studios’ original story who have yet to be mentioned, for example, with fans also hoping to see Daredevil and True Blood star Deborah Ann Woll reprise her role as Faye.The Prime Video God of War show currently has no release date. For more, you can read about why we think the series needs to rethink the franchise’s approach to violence. You can check out HBO’s recently announced Baldur’s Gate 3 adaptation.Michael Cripe is a freelance writer with IGN. He's best known for his work at sites like The Pitch, The Escapist, and OnlySP. Be sure to give him a follow on Bluesky (@mikecripe.bsky.social) and Twitter (@MikeCripe).
