---
title: "Today’s Top Deals: MTG x TMNT Pizza Bundle Preorder, DoorDash Gift Card Deal, and Silent Hill f for Less"
source: "Danielle Abraham"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/best-deals-for-february-9-2026"
published: "2026-02-09T19:40:00.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Plus, snag an Alienware RTX 5090 gaming PC at a great price, score a Godzilla graphic novel for cheap, and more."
---
Whether looking to score an awesome deal on a video game or grab an MTG Universes Beyond preorder, everyone will find something worth grabbing today. Maybe you need a Valentine’s gift that anyone will appreciate? Well, a DoorDash eGift Card is discounted. Also, save big on an insanely powerful gaming PC, or get a 4K-capable graphics card at a great price. Below are all the top deals for today: MTG X TMNT Pizza Bundle Preorder Back In Stock MTG x TMNT - Pizza Bundle Good news! MTG x TMNT Pizza Bundle is back in stock and up for preorder on Amazon. The bad news? The price has been increased by $50. Luckily, you still get the Amazon preorder guarantee if the price goes back down. The Pizza Bundle has been a hot commodity, with the preorder rarely staying in stock for long. In fact, it’s gone in and out of stock all morning, so if it’s not available now, check back in a bit. This fun, pizza-themed box features 9 Play Boosters, 1 Collector Booster, 25 non-foil Pizza lands, 5 foil Pizza lands, 2 foil promo cards, and an oversized spindown life counter. That 1 Collector Booster may be reason enough to grab this bundle. However, if you’d like more Collector Boosters, the 12-pack preorder is back in stock on Amazon. MTG x TMNT - Collector Booster BoxOther MTG x TMNT and MTG x Marvel Super Heroes Preorder DiscountsCheck out all the Universes Beyond preorders available right now. There’s even been a nice price drop on the MTG x TMNT Commander Deck - Turtle Power!. It’s 14% off currently. Or, save 9% on the MTG x Marvel Super Heroes Play Booster Box. $200 Off Sonos Arc UltraThe Arc Ultra is Sonos' best soundbar speaker, replacing last year's Arc model. It is a massive 46" soundbar that houses 14 total speakers, including five tweeters (plus two upward-firing speakers for Dolby Atmos supported height channels), six midwoofers, and a four-motor, dual-membrane Sound Motion woofer. The Arc Ultra uses AI enhancement technology to isolate and boost the clarity of dialogue and voices. It also has a built-in microphone so that it can be controlled using voice commands from the Sonos app or your favorite smart assistant. Check out our own Sonos Arc Ultra review.Get a $50 DoorDash eGift Card for $42.50$50 eGift Card for $42.50$50 DoorDash eGift CardDo you order a lot from DoorDash? Well, you can grab a $50 eGift card for only $42.50 on Amazon for a limited time. It’s great to grab for Valentine’s Day, so you can skip all the craziness of eating out and have a nice meal delivered to your home. You can also email ones as a gift to the long-distance love in your life to ensure they eat well for the holiday. It’s even possible to select a specific delivery date for the eGift card to pop up in their inbox, with a special message attached. DoorDash has thousands of restaurants, stores, and more to order from, so just about anyone will appreciate this gift. Silent Hill f for PS5 and XSX Is Just $39.99Silent Hill f Day One Edition - PS5Silent Hill f Day One Edition - Xbox Series XSilent Hill f Day One Edition for both PS5 and Xbox Series X got a nice price cut, so you can grab it for just $39.99. Beyond the dark, twisted story, compelling characters, and stunning soundtrack, you’ll also get White Sailor School Uniform, Omamori: Peony, and an item pack with this special edition. For more on Silent Hill f, be sure to check out our review. Godzilla: World of Monsters Hits Lowest Price EverGodzilla: World of Monsters (Paperback)Godzilla: World of Monsters is a paperback collection of three graphic novels on Japan’s most famous monsters: Gangsters & Goliath, Cataclysm, and Oblivion. With Godzilla in Tokyo’s criminal-dominated underworld, a monster apocalypse, and a portal to another dimension where monsters rule, there are plenty of captivating stories featuring stunning illustrations to delve into. Best of all, it’s available for its lowest price ever on Amazon, so grab it while you can. 50% Off Sid Meier's Civilization VII for PlayStation 5Sid Meier's Civilization VII - PlayStation 5Get Sid Meier's Civilization VII for PlayStation 5 for just $20. This 4X, turn-based strategy series is available for the lowest price ever. We had a chance to review Civilization VII, and Leana Hafer has this to say about the game: “Civilization 7's improved warfare and added bits of narrative flair give me reasons to keep clicking one more turn late into the night.” Get a 512GB Switch 2 MicroSD Express Card for $79.99Samsung P9 512GB MicroSD Express CardGet one of the best Nintendo Switch 2 microSD express cards for only $79.99, down $20. The 512GB Samsung P9 is one of the few memory cards compatible with Nintendo’s latest console, and it offers impressive speeds up to 800MB/s. While Switch 2 has way more storage than its predecessor, you’ll find it fills faster than you’d think, especially since more and more games aren’t coming with a physical cartridge. That makes additional storage a must. We even got a chance to review the Samsung P9, and gave it high praise, so you can feel good popping it into your gaming handheld. Save $1,200 on a Alienware Area-51 Ryzen X3D RTX 5090 Gaming PC Alienware Area-51 AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D RTX 5090 Gaming PC (32GB/1TB)A new Alienware Area-51 Ryzen X3D RTX 5090 Gaming PC is $1,200 off right now. This rig has major gaming prowess thanks to its top-notch CPU and graphics card. It features an AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D CPU, RTX 5090 graphics, and a healthy 32GB of DDR5-6400MHz RAM. Also on board is a redesigned cooling system, a 1,500W 80Plus Platinum PSU, and a 1TB SSD, all housed in a spacious, premium tower. If you need a PC that can chew through anything you throw its way, this is it. Danielle is a Tech freelance writer based in Los Angeles who spends her free time creating videos and geeking out over music history.
