---
title: "2026年最值得购买的游戏头显：有线和无线"
source: "Kevin Lee"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/best-gaming-headset"
published: "2026-02-09T17:09:00.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "We've tested gaming headsets ranging from budget models to fancy wireless ones with 7.1 surround, and everything in between. Based on our testing, here are the best gaming headsets."
---
If you’re reading this, you already know the importance of good audio when it comes to gaming, but it’s tough to find out which is the best gaming headset for you among the sea of options. As is the case when you're looking for a gaming mouse or gaming keyboard, there are several factors to consider. You'll want to account for your budget and seek out the best sound quality and comfort, as well as the kinds of features most important to you. The easiest way to find that personalized experience is to know exactly what you’re getting into and rely on those who have first-hand knowledge. I’ve reviewed plenty of headphones and gaming headsets in my time, so I’m familiar with what makes them great, and I’ve put my expertise and ears-on experience to use here. Each pick was made with careful consideration for what each headset offers as a whole, but also for the aspects they excel in most based on their category. With that in mind, I’ve included options for the best mid-range wired headset like the HyperX Cloud III and the best high-end wireless option in the Audeze Maxwell 2, the recent refresh to one of my long-time favorites. But more sophisticated features like virtual surround, active noise cancelation, or customizable EQ profiles can be defining for certain wireless headsets like the Razer Kraken V4 or Razer BlackShark V3 Pro. And if money is no object and want the absolute best no matter what, well, we can confidently point you to the $600 SteelSeries Arctis Nova Elite. There's a little something for everyone!TL;DR: These Are the Best Gaming Headsets:This guide is intended to be a comprehensive look at the best options based on specific categories in which certain headsets prioritize or do better than the competition. This doesn’t mean there aren’t amazing headsets outside of the ones I’m recommending, but these are all headsets I can vouch for based upon the first-hand testing done by me and my colleagues. These are also great options whether you play games on PC, PS5, Xbox, Switch 2, or any mix of consoles (just be sure to get the right model when picking something out). I will also be updating my picks as new ones come out and I test more of what’s out there, so be sure to check back periodically, or whenever you need some advice on choosing a new gaming headset. 1. SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro WirelessBest Gaming HeadsetOur Top PickSteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro WirelessMultiple connectivity options, including simultaneous listening on different devices, a hot-swappable battery, excellent sound, and hybrid active noise canceling make this a hard-to-top headset.Product SpecificationsConnectivity2.4 GHz wireless, Bluetooth, wiredDrivers40mm NeodymiumBattery life18-22 hours (per battery)Weight338gPROSFully featured with ANC, base station, etcSwappable battery system is innovativeFantastic sound qualityCONSANC could be betterIt’s hard not to fall in love with the SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro Wireless. You still get all the great features of the previous SteelSeries Arctis Pro Wireless with some new technology, including active noise cancellation and improved audio all around. Using a hybrid noise-canceling system with four mics, it can drown out everything from harsh noises from outside your room to the ambient hum of loud fans.Most importantly, the Nova Pro offers some fantastic sound quality out of the box with bold and balanced audio. Its spatial audio onboard is crucial as well, so it's easy to hear enemy footsteps around the corner or gauge the distance of action happening in a competitive shooter. And you can make some next-level customizations to the EQ settings and game-chat mix with Sonar and the SteelSeries GG app – good luck going back to your ordinary headphones for anything but listening to podcasts or the news.With SteelSeries’ latest top-end headset, we see the biggest design shift since the start of the Arctis lineup. The Arctis Nova Pro Wireless sports telescoping arms on its adjustable headband so it can better accommodate larger head sizes. The earcups are also slimmer and sleeker, giving off less of a gaming headset vibe and more of a look akin to wireless headphones without sacrificing the comfort SteelSeries headsets are known for. And one of our favorite features remains intact with a few upgrades: the hot-swappable rechargeable battery system. This means that when the battery runs low during a gaming session, you can quickly change it out without having to plug in, giving you wireless freedom indefinitely.The Arctis Nova Pro is one of the best headsets you can buy right now. It’s well-rounded with uniquely robust features, great sound quality for gaming, and comfort to keep you going. Take our word for it – in our Arctis Nova Pro headset review, it earned a rare 10 for all the aforementioned reasons and more.2. Beyerdynamic MMX 300 Pro and MMX 330 ProBest High-End (Wired) Gaming HeadsetBeyerdynamic MMX 300 ProThe Beyerdynamic MMX 300 Pro is a high-end wired gaming headsetProduct SpecificationsConnectivity3.5 wiredDrivers45mm "Stellar.45" driversBattery lifeN/AWeight314gPROSBrilliant overall sound qualityTop-notch comfortImpressive mic qualityCONSNot a significant jump over predecessorBeyerdynamic is one of the many audiophile-focused brands that have entered the gaming headset space in more recent times. Its latest in the MMX 300 Pro and MMX 330 Pro make slight upgrades over its predecessors in overall design, but brings similarly powerful audio performance. It provides the kind of sound quality you’d expect from studio-grade headphones like the DT 770 or DT 990, but packs them into a wired headset that’s easy to wear for hours on end. The two models only have one distinction: The MMX 300 Pro is closed-back and the MMX 330 Pro is open-back. I personally prefer the audio profile of an open-back headset in exchange for natural sound isolation, so it really comes down to preference.What’s almost as impressive is the microphone clarity, which can rival even some mid-range standalone mics. I tend to see built-in mics on gaming headsets as an afterthought. So long as my voice comes through intelligibly, that’s all I really need from it – but not with Beyerdynamic. So if you really want that all-in-one gaming headset, especially for streaming or recording content, you’ll find that in these headsets.Personally, I gravitate toward the intentionality and craftsmanship of a wired, analog-driven headset or pair of headphones, and Beyerdynamic's headsets sound beautiful right out of the box. Of course, you can potentially get more out of it if you drive them through a DAC or amp, but they're already tuned with gaming in mind (to emphasize certain sound effects in competitive games) while also delivering the kind of audio experience in other applications you’d expect from headphones at this price range. For all that and more, I gave a 9 to the MMX 300 Pro/MMX 330 Pro in my review. 3. Audeze Maxwell 2Best High-End (Wireless) Gaming HeadsetAudeze Maxwell 2The Audeze Maxwell 2 is a high-end wireless gaming headset from one of the best headphone manufacturers on the planet.Product SpecificationsConnectivityUSB-C/3.5mm wired, Bluetooth, 2.4GHz wireless (USB-C dongle)Drivers90mm planar magneticBattery life80+ hoursWeight560gPROSTop-notch audio experienceGreat mic noise isolationBest-in-class batteryCONSVery heavy compared to othersYou can ask anyone who has used the Audeze Maxwell if it's worth its price tag, and you're going to get the same answer: It's a resounding yes, including from me. And finally, Audeze refined its top-tier headset with the Maxwell 2, making it the definitive version to get. In the same vein as its audiophile ethos, it sports a sleek, no-frills design that looks more like studio-grade headphones than a typical gaming headset. It also lives up to the expectations when it comes to sound quality, defying the notion that wired headphones hooked through an amp will give you the best listening experience.The 90mm planar magnetic drivers still jump out of the spec sheet – it's just not something you typically see in headsets, and while bigger doesn't always mean better, Audeze made the most of these drivers. The clarity across all frequencies even at louder volumes is impressive, and the well-rounded bass gives a rich natural audio profile, which is enhanced by the spacious soundstage that comes with its driver and earcup design. It's like having a home theater strapped to your head, as it's suited for both competitive gaming where you rely on detailed sound cues and cinematic experiences where you expect big sound effects to be punchy.Another thing that jumps from the spec sheet is that weight – 560g makes it the heaviest headset we recommend, by far. Thankfully, the updated strap design (while still a pain to adjust) and the plushy earpads keep the Maxwell 2 comfortable to wear for hours on end. It may be a bit unwieldy, but any shortcomings are far outweighed by the upside, like tremendous battery life, clean microphone, and a no-nonsense app for customization. It sets a high bar for high-end gaming headsets, as I detail in my Audeze Maxwell 2 review, and justifies its asking price.4. HyperX Cloud IIIBest Mid-Range (Wired) Gaming HeadsetHyperX Cloud IIIThe HyperX Cloud III is a wired gaming headset that's compatible with everything, thanks to its 3.5mm audio connection.Product SpecificationsConnectivityWired (3.5mm), USB-A / USB-CDrivers53mm Angles DriversBattery lifeN/AWeight318gPROSExtremely durable and flexibleDense earpads for premium-grade comfortGreat sound and mic quality, especially in its price rangeCONSMay clamp a little too tightNo matter which version of the HyperX Cloud headset you go with, you'll get a quality product. If you’re running on a budget and want to get the most bang for your buck, I always recommend the wired HyperX Cloud III, which can often be found below its $100 base price. It punches above its weight with impressive sound and mic quality and great comfort. Plus, it’s built like a brick house so it’s not going to fall apart through years of use.Out of the box, the Cloud III impressed me with its build and durability – its aluminum frame can be flexed and contorted in any which direction without ever feeling like it’s going to break. Stretching the headset out to fit on your head is super easy and you can toss them on your desk without worrying about damaging them. It's built for comfort as well with dense foam earpads wrapped in a leatherette (just be aware it tends to get a bit sweaty), although its clamp force may be a bit much for some.At the end of the day, it’s all about sound quality and the Cloud III handles various frequencies wonderfully. In my Cloud III headset review, I felt comfortable tracking enemy footsteps while playing a ton of Valorant and enjoyed the balanced audio in Final Fantasy XIV, which this more budget-friendly headset handled gracefully. Assuming you’re on a budget, you probably don’t want to spend extra on a decent microphone – luckily, the mic clarity on the Cloud III was equally as impressive. (And if you're so inclined, the wireless version of the Cloud III goes on sale for a nice price.)5. Asus ROG PeltaBest Mid-Range (Wireless) Gaming HeadsetAsus ROG PeltaEnjoy crisp sound quality, long-term comfort, and a sleek and stylish design at a great price.Product SpecificationsConnectivity2.4GHz USB, Bluetooth, 3.5mm wiredDrivers50mm grapheneBattery life50 hoursWeight345gPROSComfortable and sensible designGreat audio quality for the priceExceptional battery lifeCONSBloated softwareLooking for the right headset in the mid-range can be challenging since you're caught between saving some money going with a cheaper option or tempting yourself on spending a bit more go up a tier. Considering how often the Asus ROG Pelta goes on sale, and the quality you get out of it, it makes for a fantastic choice if you're looking to spend between $110–$150. We recently reviewed the Asus ROG Pelta and awarded it an 8/10, and our long-time writer and tech reviewer Mark Knapp shares a lot of my same sentiments, saying, "The Asus ROG Pelta is solid, delivering great sound for gaming and an exceptional microphone (something few wireless headsets manage) while managing to be extremely comfortable. As long as you can find a quiet environment to game in, you’ll get great use out of this headset, and you won’t have to charge often. If you want an even more open soundstage, there are high-tier headphones that can do it better, but the ROG Pelta is exceptional when it comes to gaming headsets. Asus has a winner on its hands and it's able to stand out in a crowded field."6. SteelSeries Arctis Nova 1 Best Budget (Wired) Gaming HeadsetSteelSeries Arctis Nova 1You can get the award-winning Arctis Nova design in a cheaper wired headset that still puts out great sound.Product SpecificationsConnectivity3.5mm wiredDrivers40mm driversBattery lifeN/AWeight236gPROSSleek and comfortable like other Arctis headsetsStrong sound for cheapLightweight designCONSFairly tight fitWe have a total of three SteelSeries headsets currently on this list, but the company has earned its place as one of the top gaming headset makers with the Arctis Nova lineup that covers the entire pricing spectrum. Yes, the Arctis Nova Elite carries a shocking price tag (upwards of $600), but for around $50, you can get the entry level Arctis Nova 1 that shares many similarities. It's super lightweight at 236g and has soft sports mesh padding along with the stretchy suspension band for comfort atop your head. I find the Arctis Nova headsets to fit a little fight, but they feel secure to wear out and its earpads balance out the pressure.They sound fantastic for the price as well, rocking the 40mm audio drivers that most SteelSeries headsets use. It might not be tuned as precisely as the higher-end entries in the lineup, but the Arctis Nova 1 still puts out decent bass and clear mids and highs even when the volume is pumped up. It's a wired headset so you don't get the versatility offered by others, but the tucked-in microphone offers solid clarity for Discord calls and in-game chat (and you can split the line-in and microphone input for PC users). If you want the best sound for the price, I can't recommend the SteelSeries Arctis Nova 1 enough.7. Turtle Beach Stealth 500Best Budget (Wireless) Gaming HeadsetTurtle Beach Stealth 500The Turtle Beach Stealth 500 is a wireless gaming headset for under $100, and you can't beat that value.Product SpecificationsConnectivity2.4GHz, Bluetooth 5.2Drivers40mm driversBattery life40 hoursWeight235gPROSDurable and flexible buildGreat sound quality for its priceCONSBulky design with messy button layoutAs I mentioned above, Turtle Beach knows what it's doing when it comes to gaming headsets, and even if I go down the pricing hierarchy, there are still impressive headsets like the Stealth 500 to be found. Although it’s quite bulky in its physical design, I found the Stealth 500 to be easy to wield thanks to its super flexible headband and durability, which also translates to solid comfort that’s easy on the ears.More importantly, the sound quality you get from the Stealth 500 is nothing to scoff at. While it may struggle in higher frequencies, which tend to sound a bit crunchy, its strong bass and clear mids make games sound full without coming across as artificial. With the Swarm software’s Signature Sound profile, you’ll be set without having to fiddle with too many settings. Its positional audio was great as well, which I sussed out while playing competitive rounds of Counter-Strike 2, so you don’t really need to shell out the big bucks to get that kind of advantage.Even at this price point, you get Bluetooth capabilities and can swap between devices with the press of a button. While the mic isn’t anything to boast about, it’s serviceable and can be customized in the software as well. It’s no surprise that there are compromises that need to be made in budget-level headsets, but it gets the essentials right, which earned it an 8 in my Stealth 500 review.8. SteelSeries Arctis Nova EliteBest Audiophile Gaming HeadsetSteelSeries Arctis Nova EliteThere are no compromises made in the Arctis Nova Elite. That demands a certain price, but there's nothing quite like it in terms of quality and performance.Product SpecificationsConnectivityUSB, Base StationDrivers40mm reinforced driversBattery life35 hours (per battery)Weight326gPROSNo compromises across the boardHigh-res audio is rare to find in gamingWide feature set makes it versatileCONSHigher-than-usual price tag makes it inaccessibleSticker shock will hit you with the $600 SteelSeries Arctis Nova Elite, but when you're working in genuine audiophile spaces, it comes with the territory. That's a hefty price tag, but what you get in return is a gaming headset that stands on its own atop the bunch for its precisely designed audio drivers and hi-res audio capabilities. If you care about having the absolute best audio fidelity, listen to a lot of lossless music, and want something that is packed with the latest state-of-the-art features geared toward gaming, nothing really comes close to the Arctis Nova Elite. For these reasons, it earned a rare score of 10 in our Arctis Nova Elite review.Reviewer Will Judd concluded, "The SteelSeries Arctis Nova Elite is the best gaming headset that I've ever tested, offering small, meaningful, and multi-faceted upgrades over the already-excellent Arctis Nova Pro Wireless. As with that model, the key to success here is delivering industry-leading or at least competitive quality in almost every element: audio quality, mic quality, comfort, connectivity, design, software, and features. If you want the ultimate gaming headset at any price – an all-in-one offering that works brilliantly across PC, consoles, and mobile – this is what I'd recommend."I've tested and used this headset myself, too, and it lives up to all the hype, which was achievable by improving upon the already great Arctis Nova Pro that's stilll our No. 1 recommendation. Again, the Elite is going to cater to a niche crowd, but if you're in that crowd, there's just nothing like it. 9. Razer Kraken V4Best Surround Sound Gaming HeadsetRazer Kraken V4The Razer Kraken V4 is a beefy headset, and of its THX Spatial Audio is one of the best implementations of virtual surround sound.Product SpecificationsConnectivity3.5mm or USB-A / USB-C wired Drivers50mm NeodymiumBattery lifeN/AWeight369gPROSFantastic use of THX Spatial AudioRobust audio experience and comfortCONSLacking mic clarityThe Kraken V4 is Razer's flagship headset that's geared more towards luxury features (whereas something like the Blackshark V2 is more tuned for the competitive scene). And with that particular focus, you get one of the best implementations of virutual surround sound in any gaming headset. That's largely due to THX Spatial Audio and the fact that the Kraken V4 was designed with the feature in mind. Instead of it sounding like you're in an empty hall, there's a lot more detail in the positioning and distance of sound effects, especially when the game or movie you're experiencing was designed with spatial audio in mind. It's not something I'd recommend for competitive gaming, but having good theater-like sound on a headset is tough to find.In my review of the Razer Kraken V4 Pro, I praised its sound quality, comfort, and surround sound capabilities, but it carries a heftier price tag with it being the Pro mode. While it comes with a robust base station, things like Sensa haptics just aren't worth seeking out. You can get the standard Razer Kraken V4 for significantly less and still get the fantastic virtual surround sound features along with that great audio quality and comfort.10. Razer BlackShark V3 ProBest Noise-Canceling Gaming HeadsetBest Noise-cancelingRazer BlackShark V3 ProDefying its own brand tradition, Razer went with a super-sleek design for the BlackShark V3 Pro headset and brings great sound quality as well as best-in-class ANC and comfort.Product SpecificationsCompatibilityPC/Mac, PS5, PS4, Nintendo Switch, Mobile, Xbox (model-specific)Connectivity2.4 GHz wireless, BluetoothDrivers50mm Tri-force dynamicSurround sound modesWindows Sonic, Sony 3D, Dolby Atmos, DTS Headphone: XBattery life70 hoursWeight367gPROSTop-tier noise cancellationDual mode, low latency wirelessCONSBulky, hefty designThe latest headset from Razer took me by surprise with how much it genuinely improved over its previous model. With the new BlackShark V3 Pro, you get a rare combo of top-notch audio performance, long-term comfort with sports mesh padding, and powerful active noise cancellation. Even with the sports mesh upholstery on the earpads, which typically doesn't create as good of a seal for natural sound isolation compared to leatherette, it is impressively strong at blocking outside noise through ANC. While many other headsets come with some noticeable distortion with ANC enabled, the BlackShark V3 Pro still comes through with clean and detailed sound quality. So, if ANC is of utmost importance, Razer is doing it better than most here.The Xbox model of the BlackShark V3 Pro comes in a black scheme with green stitching to match the platform's aesthetic, and it looks fantastic. More importantly, its expansive feature set helps it stand out from a crowded lineup; wired analog audio, Bluetooth, ANC, great microphone clarity, fine-tuned EQ profiles, solid battery life, smart implementation of 3D audio, sensible onboard controls, and the lowest latency (on paper) from a wireless headset thus far. Razer paid attention to the little things, and it paid off in a worthy flagship product.There was a lot to praise in my recent review of the BlackShark V3 Pro, even though it comes in at a whopping $250 at retail price. It has a fairly balanced audio profile, but can really sing with punchy bass and clean mids when tuned right, which was apparent in the many rounds of Call of Duty Warzone I played when I was reviewing it. When you stack it against the likes of the Audeze Maxwell and SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro recommended above, it easily competes with those high-end juggernauts, making it one of the top gaming headsets and one of Razer's best yet.11. SteelSeries Arctis GameBudsBest Gaming EarbudsBest EarbudsSteelSeries Arctis GameBudsSteelSeries built the Arctis GameBuds for gaming and deliver booming audio with solid battery life low-latency thanks to its 2.4GHz dongle.Product SpecificationsConnectivityBluetooth 5.3, 2.4GHz via USB-CDrivers10mmBattery life3.5 to 5 hours, (30 hours total with case)Weight6g (per earbud)PROSIncredible sound quality from earbuds2.4GHz USB adapter adds versatilityComes with ANC, EQ presets, and great battery lifeCONSGesture-based controls can be inconsistentGaming earbuds are a fairly recent trend with the notable peripheral companies like Razer, Asus, and PlayStation making their own that are suited for games. It's tough because of the limited driver size and battery life, earbuds tend to make sacrifices in one way or another. But the SteelSeries Arctis GameBuds are so impressive because of how uncompromising these little rounded buds are.On top of having solid foundations of sound quality, battery life, and long-term comfort, SteelSeries has one of the most robust software suites, which is easily controllable through a mobile app. This takes out the inconvenience of having to flip through PS5 menus to customize the earbuds, while also letting you access its 100+ custom-tuned EQ profiles easily.Although there are a few minor inconveniences with how some of its quality-of-life features work (autoplay when taking it on and off, connecting through Bluetooth reliably), the GameBuds do all the important things extremely well. While you should definitely use these as your primary earbuds to listen to music on your phone, they really shine in games with the kind of bold audio experience you expect from a headset. They'll pair nicely with your PS5 or Switch 2 since you also get a 2.4GHz USB-C wireless receiver for a no-latency connection; this is my preferred audio setup for Switch 2 thanks to the additional USB-C ports, letting me ditch my old wired earbuds for good. For all that and more, I gave a 9 to the SteelSeries Arctis GameBuds in my review.At $160, these have cheaper base price than the Razer Hammerheads I previously recommended. While I still think the Hammerheads have a very slight edge in sound quality, it's the battery life, software support, and overall comfort that make the GameBuds the best all around.Best Gaming Headsets Changelog2/6/26: The Audeze Maxwell 2 succeeds its predecessor as our choice for best high-end wireless gaming headset. The updated Maxwell 2 is a tad heavier than the original headset, but it also has an updated headstrap that carries that weight well. Meanwhile, its sound and battery life remain best-in-class.11/24/25: The SteelSeries Arctis Nova 1 is the new best wired budget pick, and the HyperX Cloud III is now the best wired mid-range choice, giving a wider coverage of price options. Picks have been reorganized based on price range with clearer distinctions between wired and wireless options.10/6/25: The new SteelSeries Arctis Nova Elite is our latest audiophile recommendation thanks to its new audio drivers and high-res audio capabilities, as it's specifically catered to the audiophile-gaming crossover crowd.8/25/25: The best noise-canceling headset we recommend is now the Razer BlackShark V3 Pro. It replaced the Alienware Pro headset, which is still a fantastic choice, but Razer's new gaming headset edges it out with robust sound quality and roster of cutting edge features, as well as better noise-cancelation. We would still recommend the Alienware Pro if you want something to use as a casual pair of headphones, however.8/25/25: There is now a best mid-range choice that goes to the Asus ROG Pelta, a great all-rounder that fits into the $110 to $150 price range. We recently reviewed it and it checks all the boxes for a gaming headset that's worth its price tag.8/25/25: The best esports headset category was retired, which was going to the Logitech G Pro X 2. It's still one of, if not the, best Logitech gaming headset to date. However, we decided to reprioritize categories that will be helpful to those in the market for gaming headsets.How to Pick the Best Gaming HeadsetFirst thing’s first: How much are you willing to spend? Next thing to ask yourself is, what are your biggest priorities when looking for a gaming headset? Is it overall sound quality, comfort, microphone clarity, durability, or something else? And if you want to go wireless, you have to consider battery life and what a headset’s software suite is capable of. You’ll likely want some mix of all those things, but while you don’t have to pick one particular feature or strength to seek out among a wide array of options, some headsets simply do certain things better than others.Sound qualityFor me, this is the primary factor to look for regardless of price range (it’s rather a matter of managing expectations with more budget-friendly options). While the size of the drivers – the actual hardware in each earcup that produces sound – is an easy shorthand for determining a headset’s potential, it’s certainly not the be-all-end-all. How the headset is tuned, the material and physical construction of the drivers, and how it sounds in specific scenarios are things you can only learn about through reviews and first-hand accounts, if you can’t test it for yourself. Pay attention to what reviewers say about frequencies like bass/lows, mids, and highs and how they describe their experience. Sometimes bass drowns out other frequencies, mids might be distorted in hectic gameplay, or the highs are harsh at loud volumes – these are the types of things we say when describing audio shortcomings. Some folks like deep bass even if it’s overpowering, so some detractors may not matter as much to some, for example.Positional or spatial audio This is also crucial for competitive gamers. The best headsets are able to express the details and nuances of sound effects, not just produce clear frequencies. This helps you judge direction and distance of footsteps or gunshots in games like Counter-Strike 2 and Valorant, for example, and can also result in a more immersive experience in single-player games or even movies. Some of this can be simulated through software but things like Turtle Beach’s Superhuman Hearing tend to sound too artificial, so be wary.Comfort How comfortable a headset is can be challenging to understand without trying on a headset first. If you absolutely cannot try them on on first, pay attention to descriptors such as clamp force (how hard a headset latches onto one’s head), the density of the earpads, the type of material used to wrap the earpads, or how the headband rests above the user’s head. Materials like leatherette, sports mesh, and velour all have their pros and cons, with the former being better for sound isolation but not as great as the latter for airflow and mitigating sweat around the ears.DurabilityMany premium-level headsets use an aluminum frame, which may be heavier but can withstand much more contortion and mishandling. Some budget-friendly headsets opt for a flexible rubber-like plastic headband that offers a similar level of flexibility, so it doesn’t feel like you’re going to break the thing when putting it on or taking it off. Any gaming headset worth its salt shouldn’t have durability issues, but it is something to consider.Builit-in microphonesI typically find the microphones on gaming headsets to be an afterthought, mainly because you can get much better sound quality from a standalone external microphone – that’s what I use most of the time. That doesn’t mean I overlook microphone clarity altogether. It’s rare to find a headset outside of the premium price range with a great mic, but it’s something we as reviewers always test because it’s certainly nice to have. Something like the HyperX Cloud III was truly impressive for a mic on a $100 gaming headset, and the Beyerdynamic MMX 300 Pro is close to approaching mid-range standalone mics – and those who often use voice for communication or some sort of content creation can get a lot out of a good headset mic. Noise isolation is worth paying attention to, as well as how well it picks up your voice – software-side features like controlling the noise gate can also be useful. And don’t overlook the importance of sidetone, which is a rare feature that automatically feeds your voice back to you.Battery life Wireless headsets have evolved to the point where battery life is either a non-issue or manageable with good habits of charging them whenever you can. But for headsets you’re planning on using for multiple purposes (like ones with simultaneous Bluetooth connectivity for music on mobile devices, for example), total battery life can be a more important factor. Many should last in the 40-hour range from a full charge and higher-end ones can last upwards of 80 hours, although several variables feed into how long they last in actuality.CustomizationThe last thing I’ll mention is a headset's customization, at least through software. Every gaming peripheral manufacturer has its own software suite it wants you to download, and they tend to be all-encompassing apps for all its gaming gear. But good software lets you get granular with your headset, such as Turtle Beach’s Swarm app. You can fiddle with equalization, make your own EQ presets, use premade profiles, control certain aspects of your microphone, and so much more. While it’s not as important as the essentials like sound quality and comfort, a proper software suite can help you get the most out of your purchase.Gaming Headset FAQHow do you determine sound quality on a gaming headset?There are ways to extract audio data from a headset to get a look at how they handle various frequencies, like artificial ear and audio analyzing software, but that alone won’t be able to tell you what the actual audio experience is like. Admittedly, it can be quite abstract to have someone describe what games, music, or movies sound like. Paying attention to descriptors like distortion, drowning, cleanliness, or balance when talking about frequencies are common ways to explain the sound quality of a device, and at some point you need to trust the reviewer’s trained ear.There’s also the factor of driver size, the actual hardware that delivers the audio. Generally, bigger drivers means better potential for cleaner and bolder sound, but again, that alone isn’t going to determine whether or not a headset sounds good. Quality can also come down to spatial or positional audio which gives the impression of sound effects having distance and direction – it’s important for competitive settings but can make for more immersive experiences outside of trying to get an advantage over your opponents.What makes gaming headsets different from headphones?Gaming headsets tend to pack additional features that support the actual gaming experience, some of which may be gimmicky, but many that I would call essential. Not everyone wants to have a standalone microphone, for example, but the key feature that separates a headset from headphones, is a built-in microphone. While most headset mics are passable in terms of clarity that can suffice for in-game communication, some go the extra mile to provide better clarity or mitigate ambient noise spilling through.Good gaming headsets are generally tuned to pick up on certain sound effects and have a more intimate sound profile since you’re an active participant in the experience rather than a passive observer (especially in competitive games). When it comes to wireless capabilities, most gaming headsets come with 2.4GHz USB dongles for the lowest latency possible – something that wireless headphones rarely include. As you’ll see in the next section, software suites for USB-based headsets (wireless or otherwise) have gotten sophisticated as well and sometimes offer a level of customization for specific gaming scenarios. Should I go wired or wireless for a gaming headset?Of course, it depends on your needs. I still gravitate towards wired headsets and headphones since I tend to prefer the sound profiles of a properly-tuned analog audio device (I also tend to forget about charging devices until it’s too late, but that’s a me-problem). However, battery life and latency of modern gaming headsets have come so far that you rarely, if ever, see them being issues on the latest releases. Good software suites and apps can also help you get more out of your headset by letting you customize EQ settings or swap sound profiles for certain games.Wireless headsets are also sometimes capable of multi-device connectivity and simultaneous Bluetooth, which makes them versatile and opens them up to more use-cases (especially swapping to a mobile connection within seconds). Even though they tend to be more expensive, there’s a lot of upside to going with a wireless gaming headset, just be sure you know what you’ll be getting out of it.Is virtual surround sound worth seeking out?Virtual surround sound had been a bit of a gimmick when high-end headphones started simulating the experience of a 7.1 speaker setup. But I will admit that the technology has come a long way. It’s not always best suited for gaming, especially in the competitive scene – there’s some artificiality with virtual surround that can lead to misjudging audio cues. But damn does something like DTS Headphone:X or Dolby Atmos sound impressive when done right – especially in action games or movies.Some virtual surround sound software requires you to purchase a license, and personally I find the overall applicability of them fairly niche, but that doesn’t take away from how they simulate theater-like qualities. Just because a headset is compatible with features like Dolby Atmos or DTS Headphone:X, it doesn’t mean you’ll get an equal virtual surround experience – the headset itself has to be equipped to express a level of nuance in its sound quality for it to work well.Michael Higham is the tech reviews editor at IGN and has a passion for good audio, which often drives him nuts when picking out headsets, headphones, earbuds, and speakers. He graduated from downloading low bitrate music to seeking lossless versions of his favorite songs at an early age. Having grown up playing Counter-Strike 1.6, and now keeping up with the Valorant competitive scene, he finds positional audio to be just as important as sound quality. But he actually just wants the best and most immersive audio for all the RPGs he plays, especially the ones with banging soundtracks.
