---
title: "How to Stream the Super Bowl Online for Free in 2026"
source: "Jacob Kienlen"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/how-to-stream-the-super-bowl-online-for-free-in-2026"
published: "2026-02-08T01:30:00.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "You've got free trial options."
---
You've got some options.Posted: Feb 8, 2026 1:30am UTCThe Super Bowl is one of the most-watched live events every single year. Some people watch because they love football while others only care about the halftime show. There's also that not-so-small minority only really hoping to see some hilarious Super Bowl ads. Whatever your reason for wanting to tune in to the big game this year, you still need to find a way to actually do so.Super Bowl LX takes place on Sunday, February 8 at 3:30 p.m. PT and will air live on NBC and Peacock. The easiest way to watch for free is to just tune into your local NBC channel, but since modern smart TVs never seem to have built-in antennas anymore, that may prove a bit difficult. Fortunately, there are a few slightly more complicated ways to watch for free in 2026.How to Watch Super Bowl 2026 for Free OnlineThe most straightforward way to watch the Super Bowl online for free is to take advantage of a live TV streaming service free trial. Live TV streaming services are essentially an online version of cable and are actually quite expensive, but some of them offer a free trial for new subscribers.The Hulu + Live TV Free Trial3-Day Free TrialHulu + Live TV (Free Trial)Includes Disney+ (With Ads) and ESPN Select (With Ads)The first service I'd recommend here is Hulu + Live TV. It's $89.99 per month for a subscription, which includes live channels as well as a Disney+ and ESPN Select subscription. Thankfully it also comes with a three-day free trial for new subscribers, so you don't have to pay any of that if you don't want to. This is generally considered one of the best overall streaming services for sports and a fairly straightforward way to get Super Bowl streaming access quickly.Walmart+ Free TrialWalmart+ MembershipFree trial available.It may seem strange to look toward Walmart for a way to watch the Super Bowl, but that's just the world we're living in. Walmart+ includes a 30 day free trial for new subscribers, which comes with a Peacock Premium subscription. Considering Peacock does not have a free trial of its own, this is the best way to get access to the service at no cost. Best of all, if you forget to cancel before those 30 days are up, a monthly subscription will only cost you $12.95. It's only slightly more expensive than a Peacock Premium subscription on its own and includes a bunch of added benefits.DirecTV Stream Free Trial5 Days FreeDirecTV Free TrialIf you've already used the Hulu + Live TV free trial trick on some other event, there's also five-day DirecTV free trial available to you. It's similar to what Hulu offers, but with ESPN Unlimited instead of Select and no Disney+ subscription. The slightly longer free trial here is nice, but the monthly cost of the service after that trial ends is significantly more expensive than similar competitors. If you're just planning on cancelling before those five days are up, though, the pricing structure doesn't really matter.You Really Should Invest in a TV AntennaThe free trial options I've listed here are all great for streaming the Super Bowl this weekend, but they are a fairly roundabout way to get access to something that should already be free to you. NBC is currently being broadcast over the air right this second and all you need is a simple piece of tech to access it. Even if it's too late for you to buy a TV antenna to watch this game, I implore you to please just get one for the future. Streaming services have become overly complicated and you could easily solve this particular problem forever by just spending a little bit of money right now.Our Top PickMohu Leaf Supreme ProEnjoy long-range and solid, consistent reception with this amplified HDTV antenna that offers an easy setup and a 12-foot power cable.
