---
title: "Amazon Prime's God of War cast has a Kratos and Atreus now"
source: "Chris Hayner"
url: "https://www.polygon.com/amazon-prime-god-of-war-cast-kratos-atreus-thor-actors/"
published: "2026-02-09T17:05:12.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "The actors playing Odin, Thor, Heimdall, Sif, and more have been revealed."
---
Published Feb 9, 2026, 12:05 PM EST Who is playing Kratos and Atreus? Amazon's God of War TV show has found its Kratos, Atreus, and a full cast Sign in to your Polygon account Filming has yet to begin on Amazon Prime Video's upcoming adaptation of the God of War franchise, which is due next year from showrunner Ronald D. Moore (For All Mankind, Battlestar Galactica). Pre-production is very busy, though, with lots of casting news over the last few weeks. Not only do we know who will take on the roles of Kratos and his son Atreus; we also know who will step into the roles of Thor, Sif, Heimdall, Odin, and more. Ryan Hurst, who is most remembered for his role as Opie on Sons of Anarchy, will take on the leading role of Kratos. At the time of his casting as the literal God of War, the actor wrote on social media, "Used to play as him. Now I get to be him. Grateful to pick up the axe and honored by the fans who made this story legendary." The newest addition to the cast, Callum Vinson (Poker Face), will be taking on the role of Atreus, Kratos' son. He is a central character in the story being told on the show. A description of the series from Prime Video reads, "God of War follows father and son, Kratos and Atreus, as they embark on a journey to spread the ashes of their wife and mother, Faye. Through their adventures, Kratos tries to teach his son to be a better god, while Atreus tries to teach his father how to be a better human." Here's Ryan Hurst and his new alter ego, Kratos Photo: Justin Lubin/Prime Video, Amazon MGM Studios Here's how Vinson compares to the in-game Atreus And here's the rest of the full cast list: Max Parker as Heimdall Teresa Palmer as Sif Ólafur Darri Ólafsson as Thor Mandy Patinkin as Odin Alastair Duncan as Mimir Jeff Gulka as Sindri Danny Woodburn as Brok The first two episodes of God of War will be directed by Frederick E.O. Toye, who is a veteran of shows like Shōgun and The Boys. Most recently, he was an executive producer and director on Prime Video's Fallout, who helmed the recent season 2 finale. God of War is slated to arrive on Prime Video in 2027. ​​​​​​
