---
title: "Ghost of Yōtei boosts Sony's Q3 results, \"significantly contributed\" to 6% rise in digital game revenue"
source: "Sophie McEvoy"
url: "https://www.gamesindustry.biz/ghost-of-yotei-boosts-sonys-q3-results-significantly-contributed-to-6-rise-in-digital-game-revenue"
published: "2026-02-05T14:08:13.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Ghost of Yōtei \"significantly contributed\" to Sony's third quarter financial results, with digital game and add-on content revenue rising 6% to ¥761.5 billion ($4.8 billion). Read more"
---
CFO Lin Tao also comments on ongoing memory shortage, new PS5 hardware sales will be impacted "due to cost increases" Image credit: Sucker Punch Productions/Sony Interactive Entertainment Ghost of Yōtei "significantly contributed" to Sony's third quarter financial results, with digital game and add-on content revenue rising 6% to ¥761.5 billion ($4.8 billion). During an earnings call (via Yahoo Finance), CFO Lin Tao also revealed that the Sucker Punch Productions title "exceeded the sales of Ghost of Tsushima in the same period of time," having sold 3.3 million copies since its launch on October 2, 2025. "Our established live service titles, like Helldivers 2 and MLB The Show, also contributed stable recurring revenue," Tao added. She also said Sony is "very confident" for Marathon's release on March 5, 2026, following the delay to its original release date of September 23, 2025. Elsewhere, Tao acknowledged that "conditions in the hardware market [...] were more challenging than expected" in Q3, Sony was able to "steadily expand [its] PS5 install base in line with [its] original plan and exceeded 92 million units on a cumulative selling basis." The platform holder shipped 8 million units of the console during the holiday period, constituting a 15.7% decrease in sales compared to the 9.5 million units moved by the end of Q3 in December 2024. "While PS5 hardware unit sales have decreased moderately in the latter half of the console cycle, software revenue from the PlayStation Store reached a record high during the quarter, primarily driven by the contribution of major third-party franchise titles and new hit releases," Tao noted. Tao also touched upon the ongoing memory shortage, and whether it will affect the price of PS5 hardware. "Going forward, we intend to further negotiate with various suppliers to secure enough supply to meet the demand of our customers," Tao explained. "Given the stage of our console cycle, our hardware sales strategy can be adjusted flexibly, and we intend to minimise the impact of the increased memory cost on this segment going forward by prioritising monetisation of the install base to date and striving to further expand our software and network service revenue." As for new PS5 hardware sales, Tao said "there will be some impact due to cost increases." "However, it's in the latter part of the life cycle, so that means that in terms of hardware sales, it's been expected all along that it will gradually decline or slow down. So there are several or a wide range of choices or options that we can take." Related topics
