---
title: "The Crunchyroll Store Announces Warehouse Sale With Massive Discounts on All Things Anime"
source: "Blythe Dujardin"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/crunchyroll-store-massive-warehouse-anime-merch-sale-february-2026"
published: "2026-02-09T22:05:13.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "The Crunchyroll Store has brought back one of the best anime merch sales for 2026."
---
The Crunchyroll Store has officially launched its annual Warehouse Sale, which typically features some of the best deals of the year on anime media and merchandise. New items will go on sale each week, but plenty of these are limited stock collectibles that will sell out before the next cycle of deals. Leading up to Valentine’s Day, we’re already seeing up to 70% discounts on anime Blu-rays and figures as well as clothes and accessories. Crunchyroll Launches Massive Warehouse Sale on Anime MerchThese discounts are spread across the Crunchyroll Store, with specific sections dedicated to figures and physical media. Starting on Thursday, the store will also unveil weekly “Super Steal” deals that only last 48 hours. On top of the general selection of deals, each week will also highlight media and merch from specific anime series, with this week’s headliners being Jujutsu Kaisen and Frieren: Beyond Journey’s End (which happen to be airing new seasons), as well as Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba, Dragon Ball, and Naruto.Plenty of deals extend beyond those series. For example, forever my top pick, Crunchyroll’s exclusive steelbook edition of the 1996 Berserk anime, has dropped below $50. The Solo Leveling Collector’s Omnibus Novel has also gotten a solid 50% discount, and a relatively clean One Piece sweater has dropped under $20. As always, Crunchyroll member discounts may be stacked on top of eligible deals. Free shipping is also available through the Mega and Ultimate Fan tiers, and is otherwise automatically applied on any orders over $75. A lot is going on in the world of anime streaming. Crunchyroll recently increased prices on its streaming service relatively soon after removing the option for free streaming with ads. The increase also followed the launch of the digital service Crunchyroll Manga. Since the hike, the anime hub has announced that it will be developing its own line of original video games for inclusion in the Crunchyroll Game Vault. Blythe (she/her) is an Audience Development Coordinator at IGN who spends way too much time in character customization screens and tracking down collectibles.
