---
title: "The Alienware Presidents Day Sale Starts Now and I've Picked Out the Best Deals on Gaming PCs and Laptops"
source: "Eric Song"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/alienware-presidents-day-sale-best-deals-on-dell-gaming-laptops-and-pcs-2026"
published: "2026-02-09T20:40:00.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Lowest prices of the year on prebuilt gaming PCs with RTX 5080 and 5090 GPUs."
---
Lowest prices of the year on prebuilt gaming PCs with RTX 5080 and 5090 GPUs.Updated: Feb 9, 2026 8:43pm UTCThe Dell Presidents Day Sale offically kicks off this week. Traditionally, this has been Dell's best sale during the early part of the year to score a big discount on both Alienware gaming PCs and laptops. Prices on prebuilts have risen in 2026 because of the increased demand for RAM and GPUs, so if you're looking to upgrade now, you don't want to miss this opportunity to get a new system without an egregious markup. All systems ship free and include a one year warranty. I will continue to add to this article as more deals go live closer to President's Day weekend.Alienware Aurora R16 RTX 5080 Gaming PC for $2,180Alienware Aurora R16 Intel Core Ultra 7 265F RTX 5080 Gaming PC (16GB/1TB)Dell is currently offering an Alienware Aurora R16 RTX 5080 gaming PC for $2,179.99 with free delivery after a $650 instant discount. This customizable system is equipped with an Intel Core Ultra 7 265F CPU, GeForce RTX 5080 GPU, 16GB of DDR5 RAM, and a 1TB SSD. It's cooled by a 240mm all-in-one liquid cooling system. The 1,000W power supply gives you headroom for upgrades down the road. If you're looking for a future-proof system, this RTX 5080 equipped PC should be powerful enough to set you up for 4K gaming for quite a while.Alienware Area-51 RTX 5090 Gaming PC From $4,300Alienware Area-51 AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D RTX 5090 Gaming PC (32GB/1TB)Alienware Area-51 Intel Core Ultra 7 265 RTX 5090 Gaming PC (32GB/1TB)Alienware's only RTX 5090 equipped gaming PC sees its biggest discount of the year. The Alienware Area-51 Intel Edition RTX 5090 gaming PC starts at just $4,299.99 after an $1,150 discount. Arguably an even better deal is the Alienware Area-51 AMD Ryzen X3D Edition RTX 5090 gaming PC, which drops to $4,449.99.These are the best deals I've seen for an Area-51 RTX 5090 desktop and beats out 2025 pricing, despite the fact that RAM and GPU prices are on the rise. In fact, as of today, these are the lowest prices for an RTX 5090 prebuilt across all brands and retailers. Once these deals expire, they probably won't resurface for several months.Alienware 16X Aurora Gaming Laptop From $1,499.99Alienware 16X Aurora Intel Core Ultra 9 275HX RTX 5060 Gaming Laptop (16GB/1TB)Alienware 16X Aurora Intel Core Ultra 9 275HX RTX 5070 Gaming Laptop (16GB/1TB)The Alienware 16X Aurora gaming laptop is on sale at a reasonable price for the first time in 2026. Choose either the Intel Core Ultra 9 / RTX 5060 configuration for $1,499.99 ($470 discount) or the Intel Core Ultra 9 / RTX 5070 configuration for $1,899.99 ($470 discount). The Alienware 16X Aurora is the spiritual successor to the m16 laptop, featuring an all-aluminum build (top lid and chassis), high quality display, and powerful unthrottled discrete graphics.Get a 24" Monitor for Just $63 With Any PC PurchaseSave 30% Off With PC Purchase24" Dell SE2425HM 1080p 100Hz IPS MonitorThe 24" Dell SE2425HM might not be the premier monitor you'd want to be using for gaming, but it's a good secondary or backup monitor to have on hand, especially for the price you can get it at. Purchase any PC and you can get an extra 30% off its current sale price of $89.99, dropping it to $62.99. Just make sure you add it to the same cart as your PC and you should see the discount automatically applied. The SE2425HM features a 1080p 100Hz IPS panel.Eric Song is the IGN commerce manager in charge of finding the best gaming and tech deals every day. When Eric isn't hunting for deals for other people at work, he's hunting for deals for himself during his free time.
