---
title: "Remedy任命EA前副总裁Jean-Charles Gaudechon为新任首席执行官"
source: "Vikki Blake"
url: "https://www.gamesindustry.biz/remedy-appoints-former-ea-vp-jean-charles-gaudechon-as-new-ceo"
published: "2026-02-09T19:48:12.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "《心灵杀手》开发商Remedy Entertainment任命EA前高管Jean-Charles“JC”Gaudechon为新任首席执行官。阅读更多"
---
"We will stay close to players, earn their time and trust, and strengthen our independence," Gaudechon said Image credit: Remedy Alan Wake developer Remedy Entertainment has appointed former EA executive Jean-Charles "JC" Gaudechon as its new CEO. Gaudechon will assume the role on March 1, succeeding interim CEO and co-founder Markus Mäki. He brings over 20 years of leadership experience from "the global gaming and digital entertainment industry," having previously worked in a senior capacity at EA and CCP Games, and most recently served as SVP and group GM at sports app, Sleeper. "I am delighted to announce the appointment of Jean-Charles (JC) Gaudechon to lead Remedy into a phase of profitable growth," said Henri Österlund, chairman of Remedy's board of directors. "His proven history in growing gaming franchises and successfully leading international studios is an excellent fit to the current stage of Remedy's business. Under JC's leadership, we are well-positioned to significantly accelerate growth, guide Remedy towards greater independence through self-publishing, and deliver sustained value to our players, partners, and shareholders."Jean-Charles Gaudechon added: "I'm excited and honored to join Remedy at a pivotal time. The studio has a unique creative identity and a strong pipeline. My commitment is to protect what makes it special, deliver exceptional games, and scale Remedy in a way that builds lasting value. "Remedy has the voice and the ambition to be a pillar of the industry's future. We will stay close to players, earn their time and trust, and strengthen our independence in how we build and publish our games, while continuing to work closely with the partners who have supported us along the way. I will be moving to Finland with my family and I'm incredibly excited about getting to work directly with the team at the studio." Related topics
