---
title: "Magic's Upcoming TMNT Set Is Light on Mechanical Depth, But Still Introduces Plenty of Tubular Cards"
source: "Robert Anderson"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/magic-the-gathering-teenage-mutant-ninja-turtles-preview"
published: "2026-02-17T19:00:00.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Compared to some of the more recent sets like Avatar or Edge of Eternities, from a mechanics standpoint, TMNT is a bit on the light side, opting to bring back keywords—even renaming some—instead of big new systems like how Warp or the bending styles worked. That said, 2026’s debut Universes Beyond set still looks to be bringing some tubular cards and product to the table on March 6."
---
It's only been about four months since Magic players last visited [the streets of New York City](https://www.ign.com/articles/spider-man-magic-the-gathering-card-reveal-spoiler-spider-verse), and in just a short few weeks, swinging through the skies and hotdog carts will be replaced by surfing through the sewers and slices of pizza with the upcoming Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles set of Magic: The Gathering.

Compared to some of the more recent sets like [Avatar](https://www.ign.com/articles/avatar-the-last-airbender-magic-the-gathering-beginner-box-card-reveal-spoilers) or [Edge of Eternities](https://www.ign.com/articles/magic-the-gathering-edge-of-eternities-preview), from a mechanics standpoint, TMNT is a bit on the light side, opting to bring back keywords—even renaming some—instead of big new systems like how Warp or the bending styles worked. That said, 2026’s debut Universes Beyond set still looks to be bringing some tubular cards and product to the table on March 6.

First up, let’s take a look at the different abilities that will be making up your radical decks with this set, including the likes of “Sneak,” “Alliance,” “Disappear,” and Mutagen Tokens. Both Alliance and Disappear are returning mechanics, originally appearing in Streets of New Capenna and Aether Revolt respectively, though you may recognize “Disappear” under its other name of “Revolt.” Alliance triggers via an ETB effect whenever a creature enters the battlefield under your control, and Disappear on the flip side triggers when a permanent you control leaves the battlefield (making it great for blink decks).

Sneak, while new, feels like the estranged sibling of Ninjutsu—the Venus de Milo, if you will. Similar to Ninjutsu, whenever a creature isn’t blocked, you are able to swap out that creature with a card by casting its Sneak cost from their hand, with sorceries and other non-creature spells featuring this new keyword this time around. Cards like “Michelangelo, Improviser” take advantage of this to great effect, allowing you to not only bring him out, but also any other creature or land out all for only 2GG, and will be great additions to any decks that rock Whispersilk Cloaks, Rogue’s Passages, or any of the other plethora of cards that make creatures unblockable.

As someone who has built a counter-focused deck running things like Parallel Lives and Doubling Season, the new Mutagen artifact token is particularly exciting. Based on the ooze that turned simple baby turtles and a rat into ninja masters with an unhealthy obsession with pizza, each Mutagen token can be sacrificed to put a +1/+1 counter on a target creature. It’s only appropriate then that “The Ooze” cards allow you to create more of these tokens whenever a creature that has +1/+1 counters on it already leaves the battlefield, or allow you to tap the card to exile a card from a graveyard and create a token too. My counter deck will no doubt be dining on turtle soup with cards like that once the set releases.

As mentioned earlier, this is the second time a set will be set in the real-world New York City location, so I was curious how the team was approaching its depiction here with heroes in the half-shell compared to the webhead and his rogues’ gallery.

Speaking with Crystal, the narrative lead for the set, she explains the approach was “the New York you visit (Spider-Man) versus the New York you are from or live in (TMNT).” Spider-Man showed off the more inspiring and beautiful sides of the city, with its sprawling skylines and towering buildings, while a big focus of TMNT has been showing off the beloved city in a more homey and lived-in state, where spaces are repurposed with a heavy emphasis on really nailing the lighting. Treatments like the Vanish Lands, depicting areas the brothers were just at, or the beautiful full-art rooftop lands showing them leaping from one rooftop to the next in the shadows, are particularly striking. The artists on this set have aced the assignment.

One of my biggest surprises from the preview came from the inspiration behind the lone Commander deck, the five-color “Turtle Power” [pre-con](https://www.ign.com/wikis/magic-the-gathering/Every_MTG_Commander_Precon_Deck_in_Order). Among the many types of media that the turtles have battled Shredder and the Foot Clan across, my personal favorite has been the video games, and it is this legacy of media that Wizards have used as the main inspiration for the deck. Cards like “Level Up,” “Arcade Cabinet,” “High Score,” and the nightmare-inducing “Electric Seaweed” from the original NES title being featured in the decklist are just some of the new cards that drive home this nostalgic trip to the past from when video rental stores were still commonplace.

This precon also lets players pick from the largest number of possible commanders in potentially the entire product line’s history, with you able to pick from either a single five-color card featuring all four of the turtles, or a combination of Leonard and any of his brothers or his master as a companion. It’s just a bummer that TMNT is only getting a single precon (seriously, where is my Foot Clan / villains deck?!), but there are a good number of new goodies crammed into this deck with 40+ brand-new cards, and at least we are getting one at all, right? (looks at Avatar).

Aside from the Commander deck, the turtles’ lineup is packed like a Pizza Hut during “Book It” month from the ’90s. Along with the standard fare of Play and Collector boosters and bundles, a special bundle coming in a pizza box will also be released that comes with the special pizza-themed lands, but players will also be able to snag a brand-new sort of product that lets up to four players don the colored bandanas of the brothers to deal with the likes of Krang and Shredder in a cooperative battle.

In the Turtle Team-Up box, each brother has their own unique deck along with the chosen boss, with unique cards that are only compatible in this mode, but cards like “Turtle Tracks” are more selective group hug, which reads “Any number of target players may each search their library for a basic land card, put it onto the battlefield under their control, then shuffle.” The goal is to provide a new way to introduce new players to the game, allowing experienced players to serve as a sort of Splinter-mentor figure in a more welcoming cooperative sewerscape to learn in. I enjoy playing two-headed giant games with my friends, so I hope this product does well and we get more in the future, allowing me to build a solid deck around this more targeted group-hug style of gameplay.

My older brother and I grew up with our toy boxes full of Ninja Turtles, and I have fond memories of having my friends sleep over and renting the best TMNT game, Turtles in Time (SNES). It’s still wild to me to see the brothers jumping around Magic cards now, but I’m also still trying to wrap my head around the fact that I have a kid while I sit and theorycraft my next Magic deck. This new set looks chock-full of fun for fans of any generation of the turtles, and the new Turtle Team-Up game looks to be a great new way to teach hesitant friends what’s so great about this hobby of ours. And isn’t hanging out with our friends what Turtle Power is all about at the end of the day? That and pizza.

_Scott White is a freelance contributor to IGN, assisting with tabletop games and guide coverage. Follow him on_ [_X/Twitter_](https://x.com/ProfessorRPG) _or_ [_Bluesky_](https://bsky.app/profile/professorrpg.bsky.social)_._
