---
title: "All Onsen Egg Hunt locations in Heartopia"
source: "Julia Lee"
url: "https://www.polygon.com/heartopia-egg-hunt-onsen-promise-treasure-locations-today/"
published: "2026-02-09T15:11:32.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "If you're looking for today's egg location in Heartopia, our guide lists all of the available onsen eggs to hunt so far."
---
You can hunt for eggs as part of Heartopia's Winter Frost Season event. These colorful onsen eggs are part of the "Onsen Egg Promise Treasure Hunt" portion of the event, and each egg you find will reward you with five Wishing Stars and 300 Fashionwave Tokens, a special currency you can use to score event-limited furniture, clothing, emotes, and vehicles. For more free loot to pad out your savings, you can check out our list of active Heartopia codes to redeem. You can see all the egg hunt locations in Heartopia below, with the newest eggs appearing at the top. Update (Feb. 9): We've added the Day 10 egg to this guide. How the Heartopia egg hunt event works To "hunt" the egg, you'll just need to take a photo of it. A text box will appear to identify the egg, similarly to how text appears to identify birds as part of the bird watching hobby. Once you snap the photo, you'll get the rewards. One new egg appears every day and you can see which eggs you've found in the "fashion activity" section of the event screen. So far, all of them are found within the Winter Utopia event area, which is the northern beach portion of Onsen Mountain. If you don't have access to this stuff yet, you probably need to level up a bit more. You'll need to be at least D.G. Member Level seven and you'll need to be done with the beginner main story quests. Day 10 egg location in Heartopia Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Feb. 9 and is on the side of Blanc's flower stand. Day 9 egg location in Heartopia Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Feb. 8 and is on a rock. After teleporting to the Winter Utopia bus stop, head right and under the wooden platform to find this egg. Day 8 egg location in Heartoipa Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Feb. 7 and it's on top of the coffee table umbrella to the east of the snow structure. Day 7 egg location in Heartopia Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Souce images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Feb. 6 and it's inside the snow structure with Atara, on top of a table. Day 6 egg location in Heartopia Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Feb. 5 and it's on top of the snow structure that Atara is inside. If you go up the stairs that the Day 3 egg was under, you should see this egg on your left. Day 5 egg location in Heartopia Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Feb. 4 and it's on top of Massimo's food stand. Day 4 egg location in Heartopia Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Feb. 3 and it's behind Blanc's flower stand. Day 3 egg location in Heartopia Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Feb. 2 and is under the stairs of the snow shelter in the event area. Day 2 egg location in Heartopia Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Feb. 1 and is on the snow moose's head at the entrance to the ice rink. Day 1 egg location in Heartopia Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: XD via Polygon This egg was added on Jan. 31 and it's on the railing near Naughty.
