---
title: "Ubisoft allegedly stops production on Assassin's Creed multiplayer"
source: "Sophie McEvoy"
url: "https://www.gamesindustry.biz/ubisoft-allegedly-stops-production-on-assassins-creed-multiplayer"
published: "2026-02-06T12:01:41.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Ubisoft has reportedly halted development of a multiplayer Assassin's Creed title. Read more"
---
Rumoured co-op was supposedly intended to be DLC for Assassin's Creed Shadows Image credit: Ubisoft Ubisoft has reportedly halted development of a multiplayer Assassin's Creed title. That's according to French publication Origami (independently translated by IGN), which claimed that the project – codenamed 'AC League' – was intended to be DLC for Assassin's Creed Shadows. Developed by Ubisoft Annecy, the co-op was said to include up to four players as assassins taking part in scripted missions, with the story concluding in the game's now cancelled season pass. The season pass was scrapped following the delay of Shadows from November 2024 to February 2025. Its only expansion, Claws of Awaji, launched last September. According to Origami, AC League was "fairly ambitious" and would have served "as a baseline for future multiplayer features throughout the series." However, directors were reportedly wary that it "would take too long to make" and settled on turning into a "small, standalone title" using assets from Shadows. GamesIndustry.biz contacted Ubisoft for further comment and clarification. It declined to comment. Despite an invite-only alpha allegedly planned for May 2026, Ubisoft Annecy was reportedly informed last week that the project had been cancelled as part of ongoing restructuring at Ubisoft. This resulted in the cancellation of six games, including the Prince of Persia: Sands of Time remake, the delay of seven more, and the closure of Ubisoft Stockholm. Origami reported that a "handful" of employees at Annecy will "transfer the technical advancements" made during the development of the project into its Anvil engine. But, as IGN notes, this leaves "more than a quarter of the 270 individuals working at Annecy without a project," with a suggestion of potential layoffs. Last week, Ubisoft launched a voluntary redundancy process to cut 200 jobs from its Paris head office, representing 18% of the unit's staff. Related topics
