---
title: "Epic Games Store Refutes Claim It 'Ghosted' Horses Developer, and Insists It Gave 'Context Around the Policies They Violated'"
source: "Vikki Blake"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/epic-games-store-refutes-claim-it-ghosted-horses-developer-and-insists-it-gave-context-around-the-policies-they-violated"
published: "2026-02-09T12:50:37.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Epic Games has hit back at claims it made \"provably incorrect statements\" about controversial horror game Horses, and instead insisted it was transparent with developer Santa Ragione about its inability to sell the game via the Epic Games Store as planned."
---
Updated: Feb 9, 2026 12:50pm UTCEpic Games has hit back at claims it made "provably incorrect statements" about controversial horror game Horses, and instead insisted it was transparent with developer Santa Ragione about its inability to sell the game via the Epic Games Store as planned. Horses, the indie horror game banned from both Steam and the Epic Games Store ahead of its launch in December 2025, is an indie first-person horror game with live-action sequences set in a horse farm. Over the course of 14 days, it "welcomes you into encounters that test your obedience, complicity, and restraint." The player experiences "the farm's unspeakable horrors through daily unique interactions," as they must "withstand 14 days of spiraling dread as the reality of the farm unfolds."Horses was first banned from Steam two years ago after the team submitted an in-progress prototype. While some feedback was provided, Santa Ragione insists that no specifics were shared with the team at the time, nor was there an opportunity to appeal. It was banned again in December due to its disturbing imagery, and while violent and sexual content is hardly new for either Steam or Epic, Santa Ragione took issue with what it deemed to be censorship, calling for "clearer rules, transparent processes, and meaningful accountability from near monopolistic distribution platforms and the systems they enforce."Fast-forward to this past weekend, and Santa Ragione posted a statement refuting Epic VP Steve Allison's comment that said "we love [its] studio," blasting the firm for "refus[ing] to provide details supporting their claims," and accusing Epic of making "provably incorrect statements about the game's content.""Epic made provably incorrect statements about the game’s content, refused to provide details supporting their claims, and has not shared their claimed AO IARC certificate, which normally includes a link for the developer to appeal," the studio posted in response to an interview with Game File. "They do not ‘love that studio’, they have effectively ghosted us.""The fact that the game does not deserve an AO rating is apparent from the widely available full walkthroughs on YouTube and Twitch, as well as from its distribution on the Humble Store."Epic Games, however, has remained adamant that the game violated the Epic Games Store’s Content Guidelines. In a statement to IGN, Epic Games' senior communications manager, Brian Sharon, said: "Our team played the game and found it violated the Epic Games Store’s Content Guidelines, specifically the 'Inappropriate Content' and 'Hateful or Abusive Content' policies. "We did a secondary check by filling out the ratings questionnaire for the game ourselves and the content got an Adults Only (AO) rating — which we do not allow on the Store. Because this wasn’t an official submission, we do not have a certificate to share with the team. We did give the developers context around the policies they violated. When they appealed, we reviewed the content again, and let them know the decision was appropriately applied and will remain in place."Despite the distribution issues, Horses has managed to sell over 18,000 copies. Though that's not enough for the publisher to fund a new game, it says it has been able to generate $65,000 in net revenue by mid-December, which was enough to pay off loans and settle royalties owned to creator Andrea Lucco Borlera. Our own reviewer gave it a 7/10, calling it "an affecting first-person horror game that, despite some repetitive tasks and signposting issues, delivers a harrowing story you won’t forget in a hurry."Vikki Blake is a reporter for IGN, as well as a critic, columnist, and consultant with 15+ years experience working with some of the world's biggest gaming sites and publications. She's also a Guardian, Spartan, Silent Hillian, Legend, and perpetually High Chaos. Find her at BlueSky.
