---
title: "Highguard Episode 2 adds much-needed fixes, but leaves room for improvement"
source: "Austin Manchester"
url: "https://www.polygon.com/highguard-episode-2-new-warden-impressions/"
published: "2026-02-09T20:30:16.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Wildlight released a major update for Highguard last week, and it makes on-the-margins improvements that further refine the game."
---
Published Feb 9, 2026, 3:30 PM EST Improvements around the margins go a long way Highguard's big new update is a step in the right direction Image: Wildlight Entertainment Highguard’s first major update made its 5v5 mode permanent, and now its second major update has fine-tuned the moment-to-moment gameplay while adding in a new Warden. It’s a positive step in the right direction for developer Wildlight’s raid shooter that improves some of the game’s pain points, and the new hero is immediately one of the game’s best. Ekon, the new Warden, has powers that directly address my biggest criticism of the game. I enjoy most of what Highguard has to offer, though the heavy importance of armor can make for frustrating gunfights. In essence, enemies can often feel like bullet sponges as you pump a clip into them with no real indication of how much damage you’re doing. Ekon’s passive Dread power at least gives you a hint. Dread makes it so wounded enemies will appear in your field of vision as red outlines with each heartbeat. So, if you duck behind cover after pumping lead into an enemy without killing them, that red silhouette will indicate that, yes, you actually did some damage. It’s the closest thing the game has to a visible health meter for enemies, and is wildly helpful in gauging if your shots are actually making a dent in an enemy or not. Ekon can feel a bit overpowered, however, as his Ultimate Ability applies Dread to enemies across the map, meaning you now know everyone’s locations — a big deal when there’s only three people on the opposing team to worry about. He’s weaker in other ways, though. Ekon transforms into a wolf instead of summoning a mount, like other heroes, meaning you can’t shoot from horseback with him. Instead, you claw at foes before detransforming and finishing them off with guns, which is fun as all hell, but less versatile when chasing after whoever’s holding the Shieldbreaker. A new Warden wasn’t Episode 2’s only new addition. The opening base-fortifying phase is shortened, so you’ll get out in search of gear faster. And looting chests has become more important than just stocking up on vesper (the in-match currency) to buy upgraded gear. Weapon chests will now occasionally contain “masterwork” weapons, slightly upgraded versions that sit between grey, blue, purple, and orange weapon tiers. Image: Wildlight Entertainment Highlighting loot POIs on screen when setting off creates plenty more conflict before the Shieldbreaker arrives. When Highguard first launched, players complained they couldn’t find any enemies in 3v3 before the Shieldbreaker formed. (In some matches, my team would even plant a Shieldbreaker without encountering anyone.) That’s not the case so much anymore. In matches I played post-update, players gravitated toward those highlighted POIs while waiting for the Shieldbreaker, resulting in earlier firefights. It adds tension to a phase of the game that previously felt a bit too sleepy. Now, I can’t loot chests without having my guard up. Highguard still has a ways to go to be the best game it can be. Some maps can still feel too large and empty, and armor remains too heavily emphasized, especially late in matches when orange-tier armor becomes very expensive and all-too important. Still, the bones of Highguard make for an exciting FPS, and the developers at Wildlight Entertainment will continue to tinker with the ins and outs over the course of its 2026 gameplan.
