---
title: "Amazon Has an Excellent Sale on Select PS5 Games Today"
source: "Hannah Hoolihan"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/amazon-has-an-excellent-sale-on-select-ps5-games-today"
published: "2026-02-09T18:00:00.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "A selection of PS5 games have received some great discounts right now at Amazon, including Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater, Silent Hill f, and more."
---
Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater, Silent Hill f, and more are on sale right now.Posted: Feb 9, 2026 6:00pm UTCPlayStation users can stock up and save on some new games for their library through Amazon right now. The retailer is offering some excellent deals on a selection of PS5 games, including Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater (down to $30), Silent Hill f (down to $40), Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds (which is down to $25.24 after clipping a coupon), and more. These are just the start of what's available. Have a look through more of our favorite PS5 games that are currently on sale at Amazon below.Select PS5 Games on Sale at AmazonWhat makes these deals even better is that some of the games above have hit their lowest prices yet at the retailer. Price tracker camelcamelcamel shows that this is the lowest price Silent Hill f, Civ VII, Double Dragon Revive, and Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds (with its coupon) have all hit at Amazon so far. Similar to Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds, with the help of the coupon on its store page, this also marks a new low price for Space Marine 2 at the retailer.And while it's not the lowest price point it has ever hit at Amazon, Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater has matched its Black Friday price, which is certainly still a deal to celebrate. If you haven't added it to your library yet, now is a great time while it's still on sale for $30.That applies to all of the available games: This is a great opportunity to scoop them up and save while they're still on sale. They're not the only game deals worth taking advantage of right now, though. If you're looking for more outside of PlayStation, February’s Humble Choice lineup has dropped for PC players as well, offering the chance to add 8 games to your digital library for just $15 when you sign up for a Humble Choice membership. This month leads with Resident Evil Village, which is definitely worth grabbing ahead of Resident Evil: Requiem.Hannah Hoolihan is a freelancer who writes with the guides and commerce teams here at IGN.
