---
title: "Best PS5 Headset 2026: Top Gaming Headsets for PlayStation"
source: "Kevin Lee"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/best-ps5-headset"
published: "2026-02-09T22:21:00.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Whether you're looking to experience Tempest 3D Audio or just get a better sound experience on the PS5, check out these gaming headsets."
---
With both the PlayStation 5 and PlayStation 5 Pro, the visual experience on Sony’s console is incredible, especially when paired with the right TV for gaming. Playing games at 4K resolution and 60fps on the PS5 Pro is fantastic, but to really get into it, you need the audio experience to match. You’ll do justice in a home theater setup with the proper 7.1 speakers or a great soundbar, but you probably don’t want to be rattling your walls at all times. That doesn’t mean you have to sacrifice sound quality – one of the most important PS5 accessories is a good gaming headset, and there are plenty out there.I’ve rounded up my recommendations for the best PS5 headsets you can buy now. I’ve also split my picks into several categories to make the choice easier since prices vary and each headset emphasizes different features and qualities that may matter more to you than others. For example, the Pulse Elite is one of the best picks for PS5 since it’s a Sony first-party product that features some nice platform integration. But if you’re willing to spend more for pure audio quality, the newly updated Audeze Maxwell 2 is an easy choice, while the recent BlackShark V3 Pro put Razer back in the conversation with excellent noise cancellation. If you want to ditch having something clamping over your head entirely, the SteelSeries Arctis GameBuds elevate earbuds to the headset levels of performance. TL;DR - These Are the Best PS5 HeadsetsWhen it comes to our picks, you may notice some crossover in our best overall gaming headsets roundup since many of them have PS5-specific models that take advantage of the console’s specific features. There are also a few first-party options that make the most of the PS5 with features like Tempest 3D spatial audio and further customization that’s native to the platform. Regardless of what you go for, you’ll end up with something great, which I can attest to since I have first-hand experience with every product I recommend. Everything from sound quality and comfort to ease-of-use and feature set are all factors in deciding which headsets get my stamp of approval. Below, you can read my detailed explanations behind each pick to help you decide which one is right for you. As new headsets come out and I test more of them, I’ll update this list to make sure you’re looking at the top picks. 1. SteelSeries Arctis Nova ProThe Best PS5 HeadsetOur Top PickSteelSeries Arctis Nova ProMultiple connectivity options, a hot-swappable battery, excellent sound, and hybrid active noise canceling make this a hard-to-top headset.Product SpecificationsConnectivity2.4 GHz wireless, Bluetooth, wiredDrivers40mm NeodymiumBattery life18-22 hours (per battery)Weight338gPROSFully featured with ANC, base station, etcSwappable battery system is innovativeFantastic sound qualityCONSANC could be betterIt seems like everywhere you look for headset recommendations, you’ll come across someone singing the praises of the SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro – us included. It’s the current top pick in our overall best gaming headset roundup and it’s also tremendous when using it on the PS5. You still get all the great features with some new technology including active noise cancellation and improved audio all around. Using a hybrid noise-canceling system with four mics, you can drown out harsh noises from outside your room to the ambient hum of loud fans. But it's the full compatiblity with the PS5’s Tempest 3D audio that give it the edge, which is one of console-specific perks you should expect from a top-end headset such as this one.Most importantly, the Nova Pro offers some fantastic sound quality out of the box with bold and balanced audio for those PlayStation-exclusive single-player cinematic experiences. Its positional audio is great as well, so it's easier to hear enemy footsteps around the corner or gauge the distance of action happening in a competitive shooter like Call of Duty Warzone or Apex Legends.The Arctis Nova Pro represents the biggest design shift since the start of the Arctis lineup. Its telescoping arms on its adjustable headband better accommodate larger head sizes and proper fitment. The earcups are also slimmer and sleeker, giving off less of a gaming headset vibe and more of a look akin to wireless headphones without sacrificing the comfort SteelSeries headsets are known for. And one of our favorite features remains intact with a few upgrades: the hot-swappable rechargeable battery system. This means that when the battery runs low during a gaming session, you can quickly change it out without having to plug in, giving you wireless freedom indefinitely.The Arctis Nova Pro is one of the best headsets you can buy right now, regardless of platform but especially for PS5. It’s well-rounded with uniquely robust features, great sound quality for gaming, and comfort to keep you going. Take our word for it – in our Arctis Nova Pro headset review, it earned a rare 10 for all the aforementioned reasons and more.2. PlayStation Pulse EliteBest First-Party PS5 HeadsetBest First-PartyPlayStation Pulse EliteGreat sound, a unique look, and multipoint connectivity all come with this headset made with the PS5 in mind.Product SpecificationsConnectivityWired, Bluetooth, PlayStation LinkDriversPlanar magneticMax battery life30 hours Weight347gPROSClear, detailed audioWireless multipointCONSUnique design won’t appeal to allThe PlayStation Pulse Elite wireless headset turned out to be an absolute beast when we reviewed it, which didn’t come as much of a surprise considering its more affordable counterpart, the Pulse 3D, was already a fantastic headset. It has some versatility with Bluetooth connectivity, but when connected to the PS5 with the USB dongle, you can access EQ settings and 3D audio natively. Additionally, you’re able to get audio feeds from both the PS5 and a Bluetooth device simultaneously. With a sleek unibody design, its on-device controls are easy to use since it’s easy to distinguish each button.But at the end of the day, it’s all about audio quality, and the Pulse Elite delivers on that front. The planar magnetic audio drivers help minimize distortion and provide tremendous sound quality that’ll get the most out of your games. There’s strong bass that doesn’t overpower other frequencies, and playing games at loud volumes doesn’t sound harsh when it comes to the mids and highs. Especially when you use the right EQ settings, the Pulse Elite sounds tuned just right for each game. Sony's own Tempest 3D audio is the cherry on top, and a single-player game that takes advantage of this feature gives the experience of an immersive soundstage few headsets can pull off right.For $150, you’re getting a lot for your money. It’s priced well below other high-end headsets, yet performs on par with many of them. It’s also packed with several extra features that make the most of the PS5 as a platform. For all that and more, the Pulse Elite is one of the best PS5 headsets you can get today.3. Sony InZone H9 II Best PS5 Headset for 3D AudioBest 3D AudioSony InZone H9 IISony's own InZone H9 II does directional sound and 3D audio better than most, making it a standout gaming headset.Product SpecificationsConnectivityUSB-C dongle, 3.5mm jackDrivers40mm NeodymiumMax battery life20 to 25 hoursWeight260gPROSStandout positional audio designSuper comfortable and lightBase level sound quality is greatCONSMediocre battery lifeThe new Sony InZone H9 II gaming headset impresses on many fronts even with its relatively heftier price tag, but above all else, its positional audio is outstanding. It's built for competitive gaming and by extension, the implementation of Tempest 3D audio on the PS5 is some of the best I've experienced. While the overall sound quality struggles to compete with others in its price range, it's well ahead of the Pulse 3D and Pulse Elite headsets with booming bass and clean mids and treble. When I reviewed the InZone H9 II headset earlier this year, I concluded, "There's a lot I like about the Sony InZone H9 II gaming headset, especially in its lightweight and unassuming design. It's one of the most comfortable options out there complemented by soft fabric earpads and low clamp force. And when it comes to competitive gaming, the audio profile you get is both punchy and detailed, but it'll take some adjustments to get the best sound out of them for music and other games – once it's set, it shines. ANC performance is fantastic, although it'll emphasize the relatively short battery life. At this demanding of a price tag, you have plenty of great options at this upper echelon of gaming headsets – however, if you're willing to mess with settings to get the most out of it for different listening scenarios, I have no trouble recommending the InZone H9 II."4. Audeze Maxwell 2Best High-End PS5 HeadsetBest High-EndAudeze Maxwell 2The Audeze Maxwell 2 is a high-end wireless gaming headset from one of the best headphone manufacturers.Product SpecificationsConnectivity3.5mm, Bluetooth, 2.4GHz wireless (USB-C dongle)Drivers90mm planar magneticMax battery life80+ hoursWeight560gPROSTop-notch audio experienceGreat mic noise isolationBest-in-class batteryCONSVery heavy compared to othersAlthough our overall top pick is the SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro and the Pulse Elite on the more affordable end of things, the Audeze Maxwell 2 wedges itself in by prioritizing pure audio quality above all else. Relatively speaking, it's not quite as feature-rich or user-friendly (given how heavy and big the headset itself actually is), but playing any of PlayStation's first-party games or a competitive shooter with the Maxwell 2 will show you why it outclasses other headsets in its price range. It's easy to point to the 90mm planar magnetic drives as the standout spec, but Audeze fine-tuned it based on the already fantastic original Maxwell. I often describe the listening experience as having a home theater strapped to your head because not only does every frequency come through cleanly at loud volumes with strong bass, but you also get a spacious sound profile. It's something headsets tend to struggle with, often due to the nature of Sony owns Audeze, and while there aren't features that go above-and-beyond on the PS5, you get a great implementation of Tempest 3D audio and this is a fantastic option for single-player games. Virtual surround can be hit-or-miss on headsets, but the Maxwell 2 executes on it well. It also nails core aspects you need from a headset; super-long battery life upwards of 80 hours from a full charge, a solid microphone with good noise isolation, and great comfort to wear for long sessions (despite the heavier weight). The USB-C dongle lets you use it natively on PlayStation and PC to make connectivity easy, and it can be used as a wired headset, too.Spending $300 or more on a gaming headset can be intimidating, but if you're interested in making the jump, you won't be disappointed by the best-in-class sound quality, which is the biggest reason it earned a 9 in my review of the Audeze Maxwell 2.5. Razer BlackShark V3 ProBest Noise-Canceling PS5 HeadsetBest Noise-cancelingRazer BlackShark V3 ProDefying its own brand tradition, Razer went with a super-sleek design for the BlackShark V3 Pro headset and brings great sound quality as well as best-in-class ANC and comfort.Product SpecificationsConnectivity2.4GHz USB-C dongle, Bluetooth, USB wiredDrivers50mm Tri-Force driversMax battery life70 hours (48 hours with ANC)Weight367gPROSStrong ANC and mic performanceComfortable, non-sweat earpadsBalanced audio with great soundstageCONSN/AThe latest headset from Razer took me by surprise with how much it genuinely improved over its previous model. With the new BlackShark V3 Pro, you get a rare combo of top-notch audio performance, long-term comfort with sports mesh padding, and powerful active noise cancellation. Even with the sports mesh upholstery on the earpads, which typically doesn't create as good of a seal for natural sound isolation compared to leatherette, it is impressively strong at blocking outside noise through ANC. While many other headsets come with some noticeable distortion with ANC enabled, the BlackShark V3 Pro still comes through with clean and detailed sound quality. So, if ANC is of utmost importance, Razer is doing it better than most here.While every model of the BlackShark V3 Pro will work on the PS5, there is a white color scheme with blue stitching to match the platform's aesthetic, and it looks fantastic. More importantly, its expansive feature set helps it stand out from a crowded lineup; wired analog audio, Bluetooth, ANC, great microphone clarity, fine-tuned EQ profiles, solid battery life, smart implementation of 3D audio, sensible onboard controls, and the lowest latency (on paper) from a wireless headset thus far. Razer paid attention to the little things, and it paid off in a worthy flagship product.There was a lot to praise in my review of the BlackShark V3 Pro, even though it comes in at a whopping $250 at retail price. It has a fairly balanced audio profile, but can really sing with punchy bass and clean mids when tuned right, which was apparent in the many rounds of Call of Duty Warzone I played when I was reviewing it. When you stack it against the likes of the Audeze Maxwell and SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro recommended above, it easily competes with those high-end juggernauts, making it one of the top gaming headsets for PS5 and one of Razer's best yet.6. Turtle Beach Stealth 500Best Budget PS5 HeadsetBest BudgetTurtle Beach Stealth 500The Stealth 500 is Turtle Beach's latest budget-minded headset and brings strong audio, durability and comfort at a great value.Product SpecificationsConnectivity2.4GHz, Bluetooth 5.2Drivers40mm driversBattery life40 hoursWeight235gPROSDurable and flexible buildGreat sound quality for its priceCONSBulky design with messy button layoutYears of solid headsets proves that Turtle Beach knows what it's doing, and its high-end offerings have been competitive options for a while now. But as I go down the pricing hierarchy, there are still impressive headsets like the Stealth 500 that punches above its weight. Although it’s quite bulky in its physical build, I find the Stealth 500 to be smartly designed with a super flexible headband that's durable and lightweight, which also translates to solid comfort that’s easy on the ears.What's most important is sound quality, and what you get from the Stealth 500 is nothing to scoff at. While it may struggle in higher frequencies, which tend to sound a bit crunchy at louder volumes, its strong bass and clear mids make games sound full without coming across as artificial. With the Swarm II software’s Signature Sound profile, you’ll be set without having to fiddle with too many settings. Its positional audio was great as well, which I sussed out while playing ranked matches of Counter-Strike 2, so you don’t really need to shell out the big bucks to get that kind of advantage in competitive games on PS5.Even at this price point, you get Bluetooth capabilities and can swap between devices with the press of a button. While the mic isn’t anything to boast about, it’s serviceable and can be customized in the software as well. It’s no surprise that there are compromises that need to be made in budget-level headsets, but it gets the essentials right, which earned it an 8 in my Stealth 500 review.7. HyperX Cloud IIIBest Wired PS5 HeadsetBest WiredHyperX Cloud IIIWith great comfort, sound quality, microphone clarity, and durability, the Cloud III is one of HyperX's best headsets.Product SpecificationsConnectivityWired (3.5mm), USB-A / USB-CDrivers53mm Angles DriversBattery lifeN/AWeight318gPROSExtremely durable and flexibleDense earpads for premium-grade comfortGreat sound and mic quality, especially in its price rangeCONSMay clamp a little too tightNo matter which version of the HyperX Cloud headset you go with, you'll be getting a quality product. If you’re running on a budget and want to get the most bang for your buck, I always recommend the wired HyperX Cloud III, which can often be found below its $100 base price. It punches above its weight with impressive sound and mic quality and great comfort. Plus, it’s built like a brick house so it’s not going to fall apart through years of use.Out of the box, the Cloud III impressed me with its build and durability – its aluminum frame can be flexed and contorted in any which direction without ever feeling like it’s going to break. Stretching the headset out to fit on your head is super easy and you can toss them on your desk without worrying about damaging them. It's built for comfort as well with dense foam earpads wrapped in a leatherette (just be aware it tends to get a bit sweaty), although its clamp force may be a bit much for some.At the end of the day, it’s all about sound quality and the Cloud III handles various frequencies wonderfully. In my Cloud III headset review, I felt comfortable tracking enemy footsteps while playing a ton of Valorant and enjoyed the balanced audio in Final Fantasy XIV, which this more budget-friendly headset handled gracefully. Assuming you’re on a budget, you probably don’t want to spend extra on a decent microphone – luckily, the mic clarity on the Cloud III was equally as impressive. While there is a wireless version of the Cloud III available, the wired model presents some of the best value and performance. Something like the Beyerdynamic MMX 300 Pro is a current analog favorite, but since you're plugging into the DualSense when you're using a wired headset on PS5, it somewhat limits what you can get out of said headset. Thus, the Cloud III strikes the better value proposition.8. SteelSeries Arctis GameBudsBest PS5 EarbudsBest EarbudsSteelSeries Arctis GameBudsSteelSeries built the Arctis GameBuds for gaming and deliver booming audio with solid battery life low-latency thanks to its 2.4GHz dongle.Product SpecificationsConnectivityBluetooth, 2.4GHz USB-C dongleDrivers10mm Neodymium MagneticMax battery life10 hoursWeight5g per earbudPROSImpressive sound qualityBetter battery life than most earbudsControls, software, and ANC add valueCONSA few features are hard to get workingGaming earbuds are a fairly recent trend with the notable peripheral companies like Razer, Asus, and PlayStation making their own that are suited for games. It's tough because of the limited driver size and battery life, earbuds tend to make sacrifices in one way or another. But the SteelSeries Arctis GameBuds are so impressive because of how uncompromising these little rounded buds are.On top of having solid foundations of sound quality, battery life, and long-term comfort, SteelSeries has one of the most robust software suites, which is easily controllable through a mobile app. This takes out the inconvenience of having to flip through PS5 menus to customize the earbuds, while also letting you access its 100+ custom-tuned EQ profiles easily. Although there are a few minor inconveniences with how some of its quality-of-life features work (autoplay when taking it on and off, connecting through Bluetooth reliably), the GameBuds do all the important things extremely well. While you should definitely use these as your primary earbuds to listen to music on your phone, they really shine in games with the kind of bold audio experience you expect from a headset. For all that and more, I gave a 9 to the SteelSeries Arctis GameBuds in my review, and they'll pair nicely with your PS5.At $160, these have cheaper base price than the Razer Hammerheads I previously recommended. While I still think the Hammerheads have a very slight edge in sound quality, it's the battery life, software support, and overall comfort that make the GameBuds the best all around.Best PS5 Headset Changelog2/6/26: Updated our high-end pick from the Audeze Maxwell to its successor, the Maxwell 2. It's a bit heavier, but has an updated strap alongside its outstanding battery and sound quality.8/6/25: The newly released Razer BlackShark V3 Pro replaced the Alienware Pro as the top pick for best noise-canceling headset, which just edged it out with its ANC performance, feature set, and overall sound quality. My former pick is still a great headset, however, which I outline in my Alienware Pro review.PS5 Headsets FAQHow do you determine sound quality on a gaming headset?There are ways to extract audio data from a headset to get a look at how they handle various frequencies, like artificial ear and audio analyzing software, but that alone won’t be able to tell you what the actual audio experience is like. Admittedly, it can be quite abstract to have someone describe what games, music, or movies sound like. Paying attention to descriptors like distortion, drowning, cleanliness, or balance when talking about frequencies are common ways to explain the sound quality of a device, and at some point you need to trust the reviewer’s trained ear.There’s also the factor of driver size, the actual hardware that delivers the audio. Generally, bigger drivers means better potential for cleaner and bolder sound, but again, that alone isn’t going to determine whether or not a headset sounds good. Quality can also come down to spatial or positional audio which gives the impression of sound effects having distance and direction – it’s important for competitive settings but can make for audio more suited for cinematic games.As I talk about further down, the PS5 in particular has embraced 3D audio in a way other platforms have not. It may seem like a gimmick at first glance, but when done right, it can give you a genuinely immersive experience – not just for direction and distance, but also verticality in the sound design. This gives headsets like the Pulse Elite and Pulse 3D an advantage when picking out the best PS5 headset since 3D audio definitely affects how good games can sound.What makes gaming headsets different from headphones?Gaming headsets tend to pack additional features that support the actual gaming experience, some of which may be gimmicky, but many that I would call essential. Not everyone wants to have a standalone microphone, for example, but the key feature that separates a headset from headphones is a built-in microphone. While most headset mics are passable in terms of clarity that can suffice for in-game communication, some go the extra mile to provide better clarity or mitigate ambient noise spilling through.Good gaming headsets are generally tuned to pick up on certain sound effects and have a more intimate sound profile since you’re an active participant in the experience rather than a passive observer (especially in competitive games). When it comes to wireless capabilities, most gaming headsets come with 2.4GHz USB dongles for the lowest latency possible – something that wireless headphones rarely include. As you’ll see in the next section, software suites for USB-based headsets (wireless or otherwise) have gotten sophisticated and sometimes offer a level of customization for specific gaming scenarios.Should I go wired or wireless for a gaming headset?Of course, it depends on your needs. On PC, I still gravitate towards wired headsets and headphones since I tend to prefer the sound profiles of a properly-tuned analog audio device (I also tend to forget about charging devices until it’s too late, but that’s a me-problem). However, battery life and latency of modern gaming headsets have come so far that you rarely, if ever, see them being issues on the latest releases. Good software suites and apps can also help you get more out of your headset by letting you customize EQ settings or swap sound profiles for certain games.Wireless headsets are also sometimes capable of multi-device connectivity and simultaneous Bluetooth, which makes them versatile and opens them up to more use-cases (especially swapping to a mobile connection within seconds). Even though they tend to be more expensive, there’s a lot of upside to going with a wireless gaming headset, just be sure you know what you’ll be getting out of it.On PS5, you're better going off with a wireless headset, though. Since 3.5mm analog wired audio devices have to go through the DualSense controller's, there's an upper limit to how good they can sound. Don't get it twisted, though – headsets and headphones can still sound great when fed through the DualSense, but it'll be diminishing returns when using audiophile-type gear. After all, the console experience is best when free of wires.Is 3D audio worth it?Made specifically for the PS5, Tempest 3D AudioTech to simulate 360-degree audio in supported PS5 games. That means you can tell the direction the audio is coming from, be it a helicopter overhead or enemy fire coming from whichever direction, it's an experiential marvel more so than an advantage. It’s similar to Windows Sonic on the Xbox Series X/S, but Sony has embraced it to greater extent and its implementation on the PS5 is a really neat perk. And to boot, plenty of the best PS5 headsets support Sony’s 3D audio, including the SteelSeries Arctis Nova 7P, Sony Pulse 3D, and PlayStation Pulse Elite wireless headset.The Sony Pulse 3D does a good job showing off the PS5’s next-gen 3D audio tech, whereby noises and sounds are emulated to appear in a 360-degree space around your ears, and even expressing a greater level of verticality to positional sound in some instances. It’s straightforward to set up, comfortable, and surprisingly affordable for an official PlayStation headset, and a great choice if you want to see exactly what the PS5’s 3D audio can do.Do you need a Bluetooth adapter for your PS5?If you're hoping to connect wireless headphones and headsets to your PS5, you will need a compatible Bluetooth adapter. The PS5 does not currently support direct pairing with any Bluetooth headphones for audio output. However, when it comes to latency, you're best served using headsets with 2.4GHz dongles, which all our recommended headsets come with.What is PlayStation Link? PlayStation Link is Sony’s latest wireless connectivity standard that provides a lightning-fast connection, lossless audio, and ultra-low latency with easy switching between different devices. The PlayStation Portal is the only gaming device with the technology built-in. So, you’ll need the PS Link USB dongle when using the PS5, PS5 Slim, PS5 Pro, and PC. Still, at the moment, only a couple of Sony’s peripherals have this technology, including the PlayStation Pulse Elite wireless headset in this guide.Michael is the tech reviews editor at IGN, but regularly contributes to games coverage with reviews, features, and news.
