---
title: "Krafton surpasses $2bn in revenue for the first time in its history"
source: "Sophie McEvoy"
url: "https://www.gamesindustry.biz/krafton-surpasses-2bn-in-revenue-for-the-first-time-in-its-history"
published: "2026-02-09T12:45:31.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "Krafton's earnings in 2025 marked \"an all-time high\", with revenues surpassing ₩3 trillion ($2.05 billion) for the first time in the company's history. Read more"
---
Publisher's record 2025 earnings were driven by its PUBG franchise, which experienced "double-digit growth" Image credit: Krafton Krafton's earnings in 2025 marked "an all-time high", with revenues surpassing ₩3 trillion ($2.05 billion) for the first time in the company's history. In its latest financial results, the Korean publisher experienced a 22.8% increase in revenue driven by its PUBG franchise, which saw "double-digit growth." Operating profit also increased, reaching ₩1.05 trillion ($717.5 million). Most of Krafton's revenue came from mobile at ₩1.7 trillion ($1.1 billion), followed by PC at ₩1.1 trillion ($751 million), and ₩42.8 billion ($29 million) from console. ₩358.5 billion ($245 million) was attributed to other business segments, which included the consolidated performance of Japanese advertising company ADK Group and adtech firm Neptune. PUBG: Battlegrounds IP reached its highest annual revenue on PC, recording 16% YoY growth. User engagement and traffic increased following collaborations with artists and luxury brands. Inzoi and Mimesis also contributed to revenue growth, both surpassing one million units sold. Fourth quarter PC revenues reached ₩287.4 billion ($196.4 million), up 24.4% YoY. On mobile, PUBG saw "record growth" with new themed modes, updates, and cross-platform collaborations with PC and console. Battlegrounds Mobile India (BGMI) "maintained stable performance," while both games saw increases in the number of paying users – 5% and 27% respectively. Looking ahead, Krafton said its business strategy is focused on expanding franchise IPs with long-term product life cycles, in addition to continuing its transition into an "AI-first company" – an initiative it announced last October. Krafton currently has 15 projects in development, which are being "supported by newly creative leadership and elite, small-scale teams." It plans to "further expand its development pipeline" with the launches of Subnautica 2, Palworld Mobile, Dinkum Together, and No Law. The publisher also announced its "largest shareholder return program," which will see ₩300 billion ($205 million) to be returned in dividend payouts, and at least ₩700 billion ($478.3 million) worth of shares to be repurchased and cancelled. An initial ₩200 billion ($136.6 million) share buyback scheme will begin on February 10, 2026. "This Shareholder Return Program reflects Krafton's firm commitment to boosting shareholder value," said Krafton CEO CH Kim. "While continuing to develop unique games and pursuing strategic investments in global markets, we will leverage our capital and stable operating cash flow to create sustainable long-term value through shareholder returns." Related topics
