---
title: "Brandon Sanderson's Mistborn and Stormlight Archive Box Sets Are Buy 1, Get 1 Half Off Today"
source: "Jacob Kienlen"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/brandon-sanderson-books-sale-amazon-february-2026"
published: "2026-02-09T20:54:40.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: ""
---
Brandon Sanderson recently revealed he's struck a deal with Apple TV to adapt his massive Cosmere universe for streaming. This has been huge news for those already in love with his books, but for those who aren't already familiar with Sanderson's literary works it may be the final push to finally they need to dive in and start reading. And with Amazon's current 'Buy 2, save 50% on 1' sale going on right now, there's never been a better time to start your journey into the Cosmere.Not all of the details of the Apple TV collaboration have been revealed just yet, but Sanderson has confirmed he's writing the screenplay for a Mistborn movie and will be co-showrunner on a Stormlight Archive series. Those projects will be adapted from his most popular series' in the Cosmere universe, both of which currently have box sets included in Amazon's sale.Brandon Sanderson Box Sets are Buy 1, Get 1 Half OffMistborn Boxed Set IStormlight Archive Boxed Set IThere are quite a few different entry points into Brandon Sanderson's Cosmere universe, none of which require any prior reading to jump into. I'd personally suggest starting with the Mistborn trilogy, which are some of my favorite fantasy reads of all time. This trilogy represents Mistborn Era 1, which is essentially the first set of books on the timeline for the world of Scadriel. There's also a Mistborn Era 2, which takes place in the future, but as far as we know it's the first trilogy that Sanderson will be adapting into feature films.The other box set featured here is for The Stormlight Archive. The set only includes the first three books in the series, but it's an excellent starting point into Sanderson's biggest series in all of the Cosmere. Each of these books are quite long, but they are deeply immersive and absolutely worth diving into. It's this series that is currently being looked at for an Apple TV series.How to activate Amazon's BOGO saleAmazon's buy 1, get 1 half off sale is pretty straightforward. Unlike some Amazon coupons that require you to check a box, all you need to do is add two eligible items to your cart and the most affordable of the two will be 50% off at checkout. This sale includes books, movies, and board games, all of which can be mixed and matched to get the discount.See All Eligible Items
