---
title: "The Lenovo Legion Tower 5 RTX 5070 Ti Gaming PC Drops to $1,899 at B&H Photo"
source: "Eric Song"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/lenovo-legion-tower-5-rtx-5070-ti-gaming-pc-deal-at-bh-photo"
published: "2026-02-09T21:40:00.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "One of the few gaming PCs priced under $2K this year that can run any game in 4K."
---
B&H Photo has one of the best deals right now on a 4K-ready gaming PC. For a limited time, pick up a Lenovo Legion Tower 5 RTX 5070 Ti gaming PC for $1,899 with free delivery after a $700 discount. Most RTX 5070 Ti prebuilts cost above $2,000 these days, so this is one of the lowest prices I've seen. The RTX 5070 Ti is our best reviewed Nvidia GeForce Blackwell card and has the chops to run games in glorious 4K at 60+fps.Lenovo Legion RTX 5070 Ti Gaming PC for $1,899Lenovo Legion Tower 5 Intel Core Ultra 7 265F RTX 5070 Ti Gaming PC (32GB/2TB)The Lenovo Legion Tower 5 Gen 10 gaming PC is equipped with an Intel Core Ultra 7 265F desktop processor, GeForce RTX 5070 Ti graphics card, 32GB of DDR5-5600MHz RAM, and a 2TB M.2 SSD. The Core Ultra 7 265F is part of Intel's newest Arrow Lake-S lineup released earlier this year and boasts a max turbo frequency of 5.3GHz with 20 cores and a 36MB L2 cache. This is a solid all-around CPU for gaming, multi-tasking, and general workstation performance. It doesn't have as many cores as a Core Ultra 9 processor, but that doesn't matter for gaming since the vast majority of games will not be able to utilize more than 20 cores. The RTX 5070 Ti GPU offers great 4K performance without pricing gamers outThe RTX 5070 Ti offers the best bang for your buck in terms of 4K gaming performance. It performs neck-and-neck with the previous generation RTX 4080 Super and pulls ahead in any game that supports multi-frame generation, especially with the recent DLSS 4.5 update. It is fully capable of running any game in 4K at 60fps. It also has 16GB of VRAM like the RTX 5080, making it viable for AI work. Since RTX 5070 Ti GPUs are pretty much non-existent as a standalone card, the only way to get one without paying a ridiculous markup is by getting an equipped prebuilt computer.Eric Song is the IGN commerce manager in charge of finding the best gaming and tech deals every day. When Eric isn't hunting for deals for other people at work, he's hunting for deals for himself during his free time.
