---
title: "How to unlock the  Hamamatsu Hill enemy base in Nioh 3"
source: "Ford James"
url: "https://www.polygon.com/nioh-3-hamamatsu-enemy-base-hill-key-unlock/"
published: "2026-02-09T16:47:49.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "A guide on how to open the locked door blocking the enemy base in Hamamatsu Hill in Nioh 3."
---
Published Feb 9, 2026, 11:47 AM EST How to get through the locked door in Hamamatsu Hill Image: Team Ninja/Koei Tecmo The Hamamatsu Hill enemy base in Nioh 3 is frustrating a lot of players who encounter it, because it's behind a locked door with seemingly no way of getting inside. Nioh 3 has lots of locked doors, but most of them have keys nearby or are unlocked from the other side, but this is an exception. So if you're stuck trying to complete this region of the map, don't worry. You're not alone, and we've got a rundown of how to unlock the Hamamatsu Hill enemy base in Nioh 3. How to unlock the Hamamatsu Hill enemy base in Nioh 3 Graphic: Ford James/Polygon Image: Team Ninja/Koei Tecmo via Polygon The spoiler-free, succinct explanation of how to unlock the enemy base in Hamamatsu Hill is that you need to progress further through the story. If you don't want minor spoilers for an upcoming quest, stop reading now. For a more detailed explanation, you need to get the Mountain Temple Key from Ii Naotora, which you'll get once you complete the "Fated Land" quest at Ryotan Temple. Ii Naotora will return to Hamamatsu Castle, and you can speak to her to get the key and start the "Ii's Memento" quest. She'll explain that another temple there — an unnamed one this time, north of Hamamatsu Castle — has been overrun by Yokai (what a surprise), and with the key, you'll be able to access the enemy base there. Head inside and you'll find just five Yokai to deal with. Dispatch them and the enemy base will be complete — getting you one step closer to completing the entire Hamamatsu Hill region. Looking for more Nioh 3 guides? We can help with some top tips, the best weapons, explainers on how to emote, change appearance, and more.
