---
title: "Harry Potter HBO Series Will Reveal Malfoy's Home Life as TV Show Isn't Told 'Over Harry's Shoulder' Like The Books and Movies"
source: "Lex Briscuso"
url: "https://www.ign.com/articles/harry-potter-hbo-series-will-reveal-malfoys-home-life-as-tv-show-isnt-told-over-harrys-shoulder-like-the-books-and-movies"
published: "2026-02-09T17:34:09.000Z"
category: "gaming"
summary: "HBO’s upcoming Harry Potter TV series will do things differently than the books and movies — and even include a look at the home life of Draco Malfoy."
---
Updated: Feb 9, 2026 5:34pm UTCHBO’s upcoming Harry Potter TV series appears to be doing things a little bit differently than the books — and some of the changes they’re making are probably going to be catnip for fans. Specifically, I’m referring to the decision to include more of the Malfoys, Harry’s school enemy’s family, and their home life. “I think with this adaptation, you get to see so much more than the books," said Lox Pratt, the young actor who will be playing Draco Malfoy in the upcoming show, during a chat with 1883 Magazine. “[The books] are very much over Harry’s shoulder, which is great, and that’s how they played the film as well. And I think Francesca [Gardiner] and Mark [Mylod] have been audible about this in their interviews, there’s just so much more that you get to see.”Lox Pratt. Image credit: Alan Chapman/Dave Bennett/WireImage.The actor also noted, “You get to see all the teachers in their little rooms. You get to see Draco at home. I won’t spoil too much about that, but there are some brilliant scenes at home where you start to get an insight into how he is.”Last year, Harry Potter fans gained their first glimpse of John Lithgow as Dumbledore via a mysterious set of photos showing the long-bearded wizard on a beach. Other images showed Lithgow meeting actors apparently playing Nicolas Flamel and his wife, in what appeared to be scenes described in the book but not shown in detail. Not only was this a reveal of Lithgow himself, but of the fact the series will indeed include never-before-seen moments from the overall saga, with extra room for these due to its ability to spread each novel's events over a full TV season.As for other big changes, the show plans to reintroduce History of Magic lessons with Richard Durden as Professor Binns. Plus, there is speculation that Lucius Malfoy, Draco’s father played by Johnny Flynn, is going to join the story in the first season of the show, which is earlier than his second installment introduction in the books and movies. Gardiner will showrun the upcoming series and Mylod will direct. The series features several heavy hitters including John Lithgow, Janet McTeer, Paapa Essiedu, Nick Frost, and Bel Powley. As for the core three characters, Dominic McLaughlin will play Harry, Alastair Stout will play Ron, and Arabella Stanton will play Hermione. The series is set to be released in early 2027. Image credit: Alan Chapman/Dave Benett/WireImageLex Briscuso is a film and television critic and a freelance entertainment writer for IGN. You can follow her on Twitter at @nikonamerica.
