---
title: "安德鲁王子的顾问建议杰弗里·爱泼斯坦投资Lucid Motors等电动汽车初创公司"
source: "Sean O'Kane"
url: "https://techcrunch.com/2026/02/06/prince-andrew-advisor-pitched-jeffrey-epstein-on-investing-in-ev-startups-like-lucid-motors/"
published: "2026-02-06T21:23:50.000Z"
category: "tech"
summary: "根据TechCrunch对美国司法部（Department of Justice）发布的数百份文件的审查，在移动出行行业白热化的时代，这位神秘的商人向杰弗里·爱泼斯坦（Jeffrey Epstein）推荐了多家移动创业公司。"
---
Electric vehicle startup Lucid Motors was scrambling to raise a Series D funding round in 2017. It had courted Ford as a potential investor, but Jia Yueting, the founder of rival EV startup Faraday Future, had quietly amassed around a 30% stake and was essentially blocking new investors. David Stern, a mysterious businessman and close advisor to former Prince Andrew, saw an opportunity to break the logjam: bring in Jeffrey Epstein. “Ford will likely be lead in $400m Series D in Lucid. Big strategic move,” Stern wrote to Epstein in emails released last week as part of the Department of Justice’s latest disclosure of 3 million documents related to Epstein. Jia “has massive cash issues” at Faraday, he wrote, and needs to “sell now to make payroll for his other business.” It wasn’t the first EV startup Stern pitched Epstein, and it wouldn’t be the last, according to hundreds of documents reviewed by TechCrunch. At the time, legacy automakers and newly minted startups, fueled by the breakthrough success of Tesla and progress by Google’s self-driving project, were jumping into electric and autonomous vehicles. And Stern was apparently hungry to take advantage of the resulting deal flow. The documents show he also pitched investments in Faraday Future and in another EV startup, Canoo. It’s unlikely Epstein invested in any of them. Lucid didn’t close its Series D until late 2018, when it raised more than $1 billion from Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund. Faraday ultimately received a major investment from Chinese real estate conglomerate Evergrande in late 2017. Epstein said in a 2018 message included in the Justice Department’s files that he had no “direct” or “indirect” interest in Canoo. These discussions instead provide greater insight into the many connections Epstein, a convicted sex offender, had to Silicon Valley startups up until his arrest and death in 2019. They also provide a snapshot of a relationship that has not been explored in previous reporting. Techcrunch event Boston, MA | June 23, 2026 By the time of the Lucid emails, Epstein and Stern had been working together closely for nearly a decade, the newly released documents show. To Epstein, Stern was “my china contact.” To Stern, Epstein was “my mentor, and I do what he tells me.” A ‘ghost’ of a businessman Prince Andrew, Duke of York (left) at the opening of Pitch@Palace 6.0. David Stern is sitting next to Queen Elizabeth II.Image Credits:John Stillwell – WPA Pool / Getty Images Stern is a mostly digital ghost with little information available about him on the internet prior to the release of the files. He is perhaps best known as the director of Prince Andrew’s Pitch@Palace startup contest, which ran for a few years until Andrew’s connections to Epstein were exposed. Andrew even referred to Stern as a “ghost” in one 2010 email. Stern appears to have first approached Epstein in 2008, according to the emails released by the DOJ — just one month before the financier pled guilty to soliciting a minor for prostitution in Florida. Stern was creating a fund, called AGC Capital, to take advantage of the economic boom in China, and he wanted Epstein to invest. It’s not clear how Stern was introduced to Epstein. Stern did not respond to a detailed list of questions for this article. Stern, who is German, attended the University of London and Shi-Da University in China in the late 1990s, and served as chairman of China Millennium Capital, the Chinese arm of Millennium Capital Partners, according to the bio section of the AGC Capital pitch deck, which is in the DOJ’s files. Stern also worked for Siemens, negotiating “industrial Joint Ventures with Chinese State Owned enterprises,” before joining the Shanghai office of Deutsche Bank. He started a company called Asia Gateway in 2001 that “advised blue chip companies, Chinese enterprises as well as the Chinese government in growth strategies and investments.” These jobs appear to have helped Stern make connections with powerful and wealthy Chinese businessmen, including Li Botan — the son-in-law of the fourth-most senior leader in China under Xi Jinping’s predecessor Hu Jintao. (Li would eventually go on to become a founding investor in Canoo with Stern.) It’s not clear if Epstein invested in AGC Capital; the financier spent the next year serving his sentence. But Stern and Epstein remained in touch, and in 2009 Stern started pitching other ideas. The documents reveal a relationship that starts off formal and terse, with Epstein at one point excoriating Stern for not having properly prepared a potential business deal. “[I]f you want to do real deals you have to be precise and careful„ every error is a fortune,” Epstein wrote. “[Y]our first grade is an F.” David Stern with Duchess of York, Sarah Ferguson, and former Prince Andrew.Image Credits:Department of Justice (screenshot) One of the first big projects the two men collaborated on was helping the Duchess of York, Sarah Ferguson, with her miserable finances, according to the emails. The relationship deepened over the following decade. The two men got close enough that Stern felt comfortable asking Epstein in 2016 to become the godfather of one of his children. (Epstein wrote that he was “flattered” but declined because he “made a promise to my goddaughter that I would not be godfather to anyone else.”) It’s hard to say how fruitful the relationship was on the business side. But between 2009 and 2019, Stern brought Epstein a number of potential deals across various industries. Early on, he seemed dead set on starting a “secret” new fund with Epstein to invest in Chinese businesses together, which he referred to as JEDS — the two men’s initials combined. (It was also referred to in some emails as “Serpentine Group.”) Stern later pitched buying farmland in Russia, suggested purchasing the news organization Al Jazeera and taking it public, discussed buying troubled music publisher EMI, and considered acquiring an apparently distressed (and unnamed) undersea cable company. They also had their eyes on banks. Stern and Epstein attempted to buy Luxembourg-headquartered private bank Sal. Oppenheim, the emails show. In 2016, they even discussed a buyout of Deutsche Bank, which had for years transacted with Epstein. Stern repeatedly flaunted his connections with high-profile businessmen and politicians in his emails to Epstein and his other contacts. In February 2012, Stern suggested Epstein introduce Jes Staley — the head of J.P. Morgan’s investment bank at the time — to Malaysian politician Anwar Ibrahim. “I know Anwar well,” Stern wrote. “If he becomes prime minister of malayisa [Staley] will clean up and it could be a gold mine for JPM.” (Ibrahim lost a contested election in 2013 but became prime minister in 2022.) Stern also claimed to have had dinner with Jack Ma, had a planned meeting “alone” with UAE president Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, and said he was “friends” with the grandson of former Chinese president Jiang Zemin. Going electric By 2017, Stern was apparently eyeing the rush to build new mobility companies. He tried to get Epstein to meet Faraday Future founder Jia to discuss an investment. It’s not clear if that ever happened; the company and Jia did not respond to requests for comment. But former BMW and Deutsche Bank CFO Stefan Krause, who had been brought in to save Faraday Future, made a direct appeal to Epstein in April 2017. “Faraday Future (FF) is a great story in itself, regretfully surrounded by a lot of noise around Jia Yueting (YT) and his other enterprises (LeEco, LeMall, LeSports, to name a few). These businesses are not working, so he run out of cash. FF is starving,” Krause wrote to Epstein. “Great chance to build a better Tesla.” (Krause is described as a “friend” and a business partner of Stern’s in the documents. He didn’t respond to a request for comment.) It appears those conversations petered out. Soon after, Stern suggested the Lucid Motors investment. In May 2017, a pitch deck landed in Epstein’s inbox. It was put together by a fund called Monstera that Stern had created. “Monstera can gain a 32% shareholding in Lucid through the acquisition of the stake currently controlled by Yueting Jia,” one slide reads. Other emails show that Stern expected to spend around $300 million to acquire the 32% stake. He referred to it as a “fire sale” in emails. Monstera could either hold the position or “[o]ffload” it “when Ford comes in.” Ford ultimately pulled out, and Lucid had to wait to close its Series D until August 2018, when Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund invested more than $1 billion. (SEC filings show the Saudi sovereign wealth fund repurchased Jia’s shares over the next few years. Lucid did not respond to a request for comment.) When Krause left Faraday Future to start a new EV company in late 2017 — first called Evelozcity and later, Canoo — Stern was one of the original backers. He contributed just $1 million alongside larger sums from Li, the CCP-connected Chinese businessman, and Michael Chiang, a billionaire who runs Taiwanese electronics giant TPK. (Li’s involvement later triggered a national security review when Canoo went public in 2020.) In June 2018, Stern sent Epstein a document about the startup, to which Epstein responded: “fun.” But Epstein never invested in Canoo, either. He did, however, pitch powerful people on Stern’s behalf. Epstein emailed Deepak Chopra in May 2018 and told the self-help guru that “david has a new electric car co in los angeles.” He told Chopra “they are going to build the next gen health sensors into the car. you guys should talk.” In June 2019, Epstein sent a message to Eduardo Teodorani, an Italian businessman who is a senior vice president of agriculture machinery giant CNH. “My friend David stern… has a electric car co that I think you should explore before he sells it to another co,” Epstein wrote. Epstein also connected Stern with Sheikh Jabor al Thani, a member of the Qatari royal family, on June 29 so he could “hear more about your car co.” One week after he sent that message, Epstein was arrested. He died in prison a month later. It’s not clear when Stern last spoke to Epstein. But in March 2019, he forwarded a story to Epstein titled: “Warren Buffet: Electric Cars Are Very Much in America’s Future.” In the body of the email, Stern wrote: “How do we get him ??”
