---
title: "超级碗LX广告：全是人工智能"
source: "Verge Staff"
url: "https://www.theverge.com/entertainment/874504/super-bowl-lx-ads-big-game"
published: "2026-02-08T23:58:02.000Z"
category: "tech"
summary: "超级碗LX即将到来，西雅图海鹰队迎战新英格兰爱国者队。虽然坏兔子将成为中场秀的明星，但人工智能可能成为广告时段的明星，就像几年前的加密货币一样。去年的超级碗（Super Bowl）上，b谷歌Gemini打出了一则广告，但却搞砸了一个高达（Gouda）奶酪的统计数据。今年的超级碗已经计划为Anthropic的人工智能平台投放一则广告，向竞争对手OpenAI发起攻击。人工智能生成的广告也可能出现。超级碗LX将于2月8日（周日）美国东部时间下午6:30 /太平洋时间下午3:30开赛，并将在NBC和Peacock电视台播出。Ring宣传了它的社区监控网络。AI.com承诺代理之类的。口袋妖怪30。“野兽先生”和“雷电”突然出现在超级碗广告比赛中。T-Mobile和Coinbase的超级碗广告以非常不同的方式使用了后街男孩。百事可乐在一个显然没有人工智能的广告中抓住了北极熊。Anthropic的超级碗广告有一个变化，它不那么直接地涉及OpenAI和ChatGPT。OpenAI在超级碗（Super Bowl）上的广告宣称，“你可以用Codex打造东西”。皮克斯预告《跳跃者》。SpaceX将Starlink引入超级碗转播。在《孤注一掷》的最后一部预告片中，一只由岩石制成的太空蟹会为瑞恩·高斯林而死。从Crypto.com到AI.com。Alexa Plus试图在亚马逊的超级碗广告中杀死克里斯·海姆斯沃斯。Sam Altman回应Anthropic的“有趣”超级碗广告，Anthropic的第一个超级碗广告在ChatGPT上扣篮。不要指望在超级碗期间有Kalshi或Polymarket的广告。"
---
Super Bowl LX is nearly here, with the Seattle Seahawks taking on the New England Patriots. While Bad Bunny will be the star of the halftime show, AI could be the star of the commercial breaks, much like crypto was a few years ago . Last year’s Super Bowl featured a Google Gemini ad that fumbled a Gouda cheese stat , and this year’s game is already slated to include an ad for Anthropic’s AI platform that takes jabs at its competitors, namely OpenAI. AI-generated ads could make an appearance, too.&nbsp; Super Bowl LX is set to kick off at 6:30PM ET/3:30PM PT on Sunday, February 8th, and is being broadcast on NBC and Peacock. Ring advertised its neighborhood surveillance network. AI.com promises agents or something. Pokémon 30. Mr. Beast and Rainbolt pop up with Super Bowl ad contests. T-Mobile and Coinbase’s Super Bowl ads used the Backstreet Boys in very different ways. Pepsi snags the polar bear for an apparently AI-free ad. Anthropic’s Super Bowl ad has a change that made it less directly about OpenAI and ChatGPT. OpenAI’s Super Bowl ad claims “You can just build things” with Codex. Pixar previews Hoppers. SpaceX brings Starlink to the Super Bowl broadcast. A space crab made of rocks would die for Ryan Gosling in the final Project Hail Mary trailer. From Crypto.com to AI.com. Alexa Plus tries to kill Chris Hemsworth in Amazon’s Super Bowl ad. Sam Altman responds to Anthropic’s ‘funny’ Super Bowl ads Anthropic’s first Super Bowl ad dunks on ChatGPT. Don’t expect any Kalshi or Polymarket ads during the Super Bowl.
